 None  The divisions 2013 accomplishments report highlights its work to advance three core principles: expanding opportunity for all, safeguarding the fundamental infrastructure of democracy and protecting the most vulnerable among us. None   Over the course of 2013, the Civil Rights Division continued the impressive track record it initiated during the first four years of Attorney General Holders leadership, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Jocelyn Samuels for the Civil Rights Division. But for all that the division has accomplished, much work remains. The division remains committed to meeting the next generation of civil rights challenges and to combating discrimination in all its forms. We look forward to an even more productive 2014. None   The divisions efforts to ensure equal access to education, housing, consumer credit and employment continue to set new records and to pioneer new models for bringing equal opportunity to all. For example, working with the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau, the division reached its largest ever auto lending settlement when Ally Bank and Financial Inc. agreed to pay $98 million for pricing discrimination in its automobile lending practices. The settlement provided $80 million in direct relief to African-American, Hispanic and Asian/Pacific Islander borrowers who were charged higher interest rate markups on auto loans than white borrowers. The division has obtained more than $800 million in monetary relief in fair lending settlements since the unit was founded in 2010. None NoneNoneNone   Finally, the division collected a record in civil penalties, nearly $900,000, through its enforcement of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), which prohibits citizenship status and national origin discrimination in hiring, firing or recruitment or referral for a fee, document abuse and retaliation or intimidation. The division also collected more in back pay than in any year in the past 10 years and settled major cases involving discriminatory documentary practices by Macys and Centerplate. NoneNone   The division also expanded its record number of agreements with law enforcement agencies by entering into model agreements with the University of Montana Office of Public Safety and the Missoula Police Department to ensure that police services are delivered without discrimination, that sex crimes are fully and adequately investigated and that victims are treated fairly and with respect after an investigation found systemic failures to protect women victims of sexual assault.   During Fiscal Year 2013, the divisions Courts Language Access Initiative worked with the court systems in 17 states to ensure that individuals are not denied access to important court proceedings because of their national origin and their limited English proficiency. Access to state courts is critically important. Whether cases involve child custody, domestic violence, foreclosure, wage claims or criminal prosecution, the stakes are too high in the courtroom context for parties or witnesses to be effectively excluded from participation. None   The division prosecutes crimes to ensure protections for some of the most vulnerable populations in the country: those who are abused and trafficked for sex work or labor; those who are attacked out of hate due to the color of their skin, where they worship or who they love. The division and its partners in the U.S. Attorneys Offices across the country filed 141 federal criminal civil rights cases, obtaining convictions of 166 defendants, in Fiscal Year 2013 more than in any previous year in the divisions history.   For example, the division convicted 23 defendants on federal hate crimes charges  building on the divisions record in Fiscal Years 2009-2012, in which the division convicted 74 percent more individuals than in the preceding four years. The divisions Appellate Section also defended the constitutionality of the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Jr. Hate Crime Prevention Act in court. Through its Human Trafficking Prosecution Unit, the division and its partners in the U.S. Attorneys Offices also brought 71 human trafficking cases, the most in the history of the division. The division also brought 53 cases involving sex trafficking, a 55 percent increase over the previous year, and obtained convictions of 90 individuals for trafficking crimes.    The division also works to develop policy and legislative proposals to close the gaps in our nations civil rights protections. This year, the division provided technical assistance on numerous legislative initiatives, including the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act and the Employment Non-Discrimination Act. None