NoneTodays settlement demonstrates our unwavering commitment to protect the Medicare trust fund against unscrupulous providers, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer, head of the Justice Departments Civil Division. Providers who waste taxpayer dollars by billing for unnecessary services will face serious consequences.NoneCharging the government for clearly unnecessary medical services squanders taxpayer dollars, said U.S. Attorney A. Lee Bentley, III of the Middle District of Florida. Our office will continue to pursue health care providers who defraud the United States, thereby threatening the viability of government health care programs, such as Medicare.These tests were ordered to increase profits, not improve the healthcare of patients, said Special Agent in Charge Shimon Richmond of the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General (HHS-OIG). This kind of unvarnished fraud is an attack on Medicare by unscrupulous providers and the OIG and its federal partners will take whatever steps are necessary to stop them.This settlement demonstrates the commitment of the Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS) and its law enforcement partners to protect the integrity of the U.S. military health care program (TRICARE) against fraudulent claims for medical services, said Special Agent in Charge John F. Khin of DCISs Southeast Field Office.NoneThe investigation was handled by the Civil Divisions Commercial Litigation Branch and the Fort Myers Division of the U.S. Attorneys Office of the Middle District of Florida with assistance from HHS-OIG, DCIS and the FBI.This settlement illustrates the governments emphasis on combating health care fraud and marks another achievement for the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT) initiative, which was announced in May 2009 by the Attorney General and the Secretary of Health and Human Services. The partnership between the two departments has focused efforts to reduce and prevent Medicare and Medicaid financial fraud through enhanced cooperation. One of the most powerful tools in this effort is the False Claims Act. Since January 2009, the Justice Department has recovered a total of more than $26.7 billion through False Claims Act cases, with more than $16.8 billion of that amount recovered in cases involving fraud against federal health care programs.None