The Justice Department announced today that the U.S. District Court of Nevada has approved a settlement in which the owners and operators of Rosewood Park Apartments, a 902 unit apartment complex in Reno, Nev., will pay $167,000 to resolve a lawsuit alleging discrimination against persons with disabilities who use assistance animals. None The departments complaint had alleged that the owners, employees and management company of Rosewood Park Apartments violated the Fair Housing Act by limiting individuals with certain assistance animals to a particular section of Rosewood Park Apartments; subjecting such individuals to pet fees; requiring assistance animals to be licensed or certified; and barring companion or uncertified service dogs altogether. The case began when a family that had sought housing at Rosewood Park and the Silver State Fair Housing Council filed complaints with the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). HUD investigated the complaint, issued a charge of discrimination and referred the matter to the Department of Justice. The Fair Housing Act ensures that persons with disabilities searching for a home are protected from discrimination, said Jocelyn Samuels, Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division. The Justice Department will continue to vigorously protect the civil rights of persons with disabilities in Nevada and across the country. Persons who think they have been discriminated against in housing issues should not hesitate to file a report with HUD, said U.S. Attorney Bogden. The U.S. Attorneys Office, as part of the U.S. Department of Justice, works with HUD to ensure that companies that are treating disabled persons unfairly are punished, and that they adopt policies to prevent further discrimination. Assistance animals play a vital role in helping people with disabilities conduct everyday activities and fully enjoy their homes, said Bryan Greene, HUD's Acting Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity. HUD and DOJ will continue to enforce the Fair Housing Act's protections and ensure that housing providers do not illegally limit assistance animals. Fighting illegal housing discrimination is a top priority of the Justice Department. The federal Fair Housing Act prohibits discrimination in housing on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, familial status, national origin and disability. None