  WASHINGTONA Greek citizen who oversaw the engineering department on board a Dominica-flagged bulk cargo ship pleaded guilty today in U.S. District Court in New Orleans for violating environmental laws designed to prevent pollution from ships and making false statements to the U.S. Coast Guard, the Justice Department announced.None  "Illegal pollution from ships continues to be a problem. Failing to properly dispose of bilge waste and lying to Coast Guard inspectors is unacceptable and those who choose to ignore the law face prosecution," said John C. Cruden, Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division.  "This case clearly demonstrates the Coast Guard's commitment to work with our interagency partners to aggressively enforce all maritime anti-pollution and safety of life at sea laws. The breadth and magnitude of the investigation that underpinned the charges brought forth is a testament to the dedication of all persons who were involved in resolving this matter including the Coast Guard Investigative Service, the U.S. Department of Justice, and the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Louisiana," said Rear Admiral Mary Landry, Eighth District Coast Guard commander.  According to court documents, Stamou was in charge of the engineering department and oversaw the ships machinery spaces, engines, propulsion system, and pollution prevention equipment including the oily water separator. At some point during Stamous employment on board the vessel, the oil water separator ceased functioning. During a voyage from Korea to Panama, Stamou spoke with a company representative and notified him that there was a problem with the oily water separator. Stamou did not utilize the oil water separator and directed crewmembers to discharge bilge waste that had accumulated during regular operation of the ship.None  Stamou at the time of his discharge directive was aware that bilge waste can only be legally disposed of at a shore side facility while at port or after being filtered through an oily water separator so that it contains less than 15 parts per million of petroleum. In court papers, Stamou admitted that he knew that to carry out his directive, the crew would discharge the waste directly overboard by routing the waste through the bilge line or sewage discharge valve, and not through the oil water separator. Additionally, none of the discharges were recorded, as required, in the vessels oil record book.None  A sentencing hearing has been scheduled for Stamou for Nov 5, 2009. Sentencing for both Lekkas and Posas is set for Oct. 14, 2009.  The case was investigated by the U.S. Coast Guard Investigative Service with assistance from inspectors from Sector New Orleans as well as legal from U.S. Coast Guard in New Orleans and at Headquarters in Washington, D.C. The case is being prosecuted by Christopher L. Hale of the Justice Departments Environmental Crimes Section along with Dorothy Taylor of the U.S. Attorneys Office in New Orleans.