WASHINGTON - The Justice Department today announced an agreement with St. Clair County, Ill., to improve access to all aspects of civic life for persons with disabilities. The agreement was reached under Project Civic Access (PCA), the departments wide-ranging initiative to ensure that cities, towns and counties throughout the country comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)."Civic access is a basic civil right, and the doors to government programs, services and activities must be open for individuals with disabilities," said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General of the Civil Rights Division. "I commend St. Clair County officials for making this commitment to its residents with disabilities by agreeing to come into voluntary compliance with the ADA, thereby working towards equal access to all of its programs, services, and activities."PCA was initiated to ensure that persons with disabilities have an equal opportunity to participate in civic life, a fundamental part of American society. As part of the PCA initiative, Justice Department attorneys, architects and investigators survey state and local government facilities, services and programs in communities across the country to identify the modifications needed for compliance with ADA requirements. The agreements are tailored to address the steps each community must take to improve access. This agreement is the 177th under the PCA initiative."All local governments throughout the country are obligated to achieve full compliance with the ADA, and we hope they are committed to doing so, particularly as we approach the 20th anniversary of this landmark civil rights law in July, " Assistant Attorney General Perez said.Under the agreement announced today, St. Clair County will take several important steps to improve access for individuals with disabilities, such as:St. Clair County was the first county established in the state of Illinois. Located just east of St. Louis, the county is comprised of 22 townships, with an estimated 263,617 residents. According to census data, nearly one in five county residents is a person with a disability.Todays agreement was reached under title II of the ADA, which prohibits discrimination against individuals with disabilities by state and local governments. The agreement requires all actions to be completed within three years. The department will actively monitor compliance with the agreement, which will remain in effect until the department has confirmed that all required actions have been completed.None