None   Attorney General Eric Holder has made one of the departments four key priorities the protection of those most vulnerable  children, the elderly, and victims of hate crimes, human trafficking and exploitation.      Through their work in urban, rural and tribal communities  and through cutting-edge online efforts  these individuals are advancing bold, innovative and collaborative solutions to keep our children safe from all forms of exploitation and abuse, said Attorney General Holder. By focusing on prevention and intervention, as well as proven enforcement and prosecution strategies, these award recipients are strengthening our ability to protect children in need and at risk, and to bring offenders to justice.   Focused on protecting children from sexual abuse and exploitation, the conference held this week in San Jose is bringing together more than 1,000 investigators, agents and prosecutors from all levels of government to receive state-of-the-art instruction in investigative techniques, court room advocacy, digital forensics, behavioral profiling, victim advocacy and community outreach.   The conference is sponsored by the departments Project Safe Childhood Initiative and Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Preventions Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force Program. None   The San Diego (ICAC) Task Force employs a number of successful strategies to combat child exploitation, which include: training across jurisdictions on topics of mutual interest; cross-designated state law enforcement offices as Special Deputy U.S. Marshals; regular meetings with full and part-time members; and an emphasis on coordination between the district attorneys office and U.S. Attorneys office. None None None   The awardees are honored for their work in a series of child pornography, enticing and traveler cases, which led to the rescues of four child victims from three separate homes. The prosecutions began as a single distribution of child pornography case which, on account of the extraordinary efforts by these four individuals, resulted in the successful prosecution of six sexual offenders.   Four of the offenders were hands-on child sexual abusers who produced child pornography in four jurisdictions.   The offenders were sentenced to lengthy prison terms ranging from 15 to more than 27 years in prison. None   The awardees are honored for their work which led to the rescue of a six-year-old child exploitation victim and successful prosecution of the sex offender.   In collaboration with state, local and federal authorities, the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of North Carolina prosecuted and convicted a sex offender for exploitation of a six-year-old child, obtaining the maximum sentence of 50 years in prison.   While the sentence is significant, the most compelling aspect of the case is the apparent seamlessness with which a federal agent in Boston, coordinated with a state law enforcement agent in North Carolina, who in turn worked with state, federal and local law enforcement and prosecutors to follow through on the lead.   This group exhibited exceptional cooperation and a swift response so that a child in rural North Carolina could be rescued quickly. None None None   The offices are honored for their work in combating domestic sex trafficking of minors in South Florida. Through close partnerships, shared resources and tireless work, the groups efforts have resulted in the indictment of more than 16 cases, charging more than 25 defendants for the domestic sex trafficking of minors.   In 2010, the U.S. Attorneys Office in Southern Florida had approximately five cases proceed to trial involving the sex trafficking of minors.   Despite the many significant challenges faced by the prosecution teams, all defendants were found guilty.    None   The awardees are honored for their work in combating child exploitation crimes throughout the Southern District of Ohio.   Established in May of 2009, the Franklin County ICAC Task Force has demonstrated innovation and a consistent ability to adapt its techniques and practices to aggressively target child exploitation offenders in Central Ohio for arrest and prosecution.   The ICAC employs several innovative strategies to combat child exploitation, including the training of multiple officers in computer forensics, partnering with federal agencies, cross-deputizing task force officers as federal agents and coordinating a prosecution strategy with the U.S. Attorneys Office.     Its successes include arresting more than 180 child exploitation defendants  including nine repeat offenders  executing more than 150 search warrants, identifying 10 child victims and referring 27 cases for federal prosecution.    None   The two awardees are honored for their work to ensure that a sex offender would not exploit children through the Internet and U.S. Mail. Working together, these two postal inspectors from two different states not only devised a strategy to identify the suspect and interdict the communications, but also secured the prosecution of the sex offender.   Within 48 hours of receiving a complaint from the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, these postal inspectors acted to rescue a 12-year-old boy from a dangerous predator.      None   Led by Utah Attorney General Mark L. Shurtleff, the Utah Internet Crimes Against Children (ICAC) Task Force has conducted more than 700 investigations of child exploitation; engaged in community outreach with parents and children to discuss online safety; set up Utahs Amber Alert program; and established the first statewide Child Abduction Response Team in Utah.   The Utah Attorney Generals Office and the ICAC have also collaborated with other agencies, resulting in several significant child exploitation prosecutions by the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Utah.