  William P. Danielczyk Jr.,  formerly of Oakton, Virginia, pleaded guilty to one count of willful failure to  collect and pay over employment taxes for the quarter ending Sept. 30, 2010, and  one count of theft or embezzlement from an employee benefit plan for the  calendar year 2010, the Department of Justice and Internal Revenue Service (IRS)  announced today.   According to court documents,  from March 2009 until December 2011, Danielczyk was the executive chairman of  Innolog Holdings Corporation, a company that acquired Innovative Logistics  Technology Inc. in March 2009.  Innovative operated in the government services  industry and provided technology-supported logistics services to the U.S.  military and various defense organizations.  The principal offices for  Innovative and Innolog were located in McLean, Virginia, and later in Fairfax,  Virginia.   For the third calendar quarter of  2009 through the last calendar quarter of 2011, Danielczyk was the person  responsible for collecting, accounting for and paying appropriate payroll tax  amounts to the IRS.  Although payroll taxes were withheld from the wages of  Innovatives employees, Danielczyk failed to pay both the employee withholdings  amounts and the employers matching portions to the IRS.  The total tax loss for  all quarters is $2,232,781.   According to court documents,  Innovative employees were permitted to contribute to a qualified pension plan  that was administered by an asset custodian, and pursuant to this plan,  Innovative withheld participants elected contribution amounts from their  regular paychecks.  The total sum of employee withholdings was to be sent to the  asset custodian on a bi-weekly basis.  Although Danielczyk was the person  responsible for authorizing payments to the asset custodian, he failed to send  these payments.  The total loss amount associated with this conduct, for 2009  through 2011, is $186,263.   Instead of paying Innovatives  employment taxes and remitting employee withholdings to the asset custodian of  the companys qualified pension plan, Danielczyk made purchases that included  $505,871 for the use of a Washington, D.C., football stadium executive suite and  $40,000 for the sponsorship of a horse race in Virginia.   Sentencing in this case has been  set forSept. 11, 2014.  For the employment tax charge,  Danielczyk faces a statutory maximum sentence of five years in prison and a  maximum fine of $250,000.  Danielczyk faces a statutory maximum sentence of five  years in prison and a fine of $250,000 for the theft from employee benefit plan  charge.   The case was investigated by  IRS-Criminal Investigation and the U.S. Department of Labor, Employee Benefits  Security Administration, Philadelphia Regional Office.  Trial Attorney Tracy L.  Gostyla of the Tax Division and Assistant U.S. Attorney Mark D. Lytle for the  Eastern District of Virginia are prosecuting the case.