WASHINGTONUnion Pacific Railroad Company (UP) has agreed to settle alleged violations of the Clean Water Act in Nevada by restoring 122 acres of mountain-desert streams and wetlands, implementing storm water controls at its construction sites, and paying a civil penalty, the Justice Department and U.S. Environmental Protection Agency announced today.As part of the settlement, UP will restore 21 sections of Clover Creek and Meadow Valley Wash, in Clark and Lincoln Counties, Nev., and will monitor eight major restoration areas for at least five years. The work will include removal of illegal fill, restoration, monitoring, maintenance, re-vegetation, and invasive species removal, at an estimated cost of $31 million. UP will also pay $800,000 in civil penalties."This settlement will restore Clover Creek and Meadow Valley Wash," said John C. Cruden, Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division. "We are pleased that this agreement will result in the restoration of important mountain-desert streams and habitat for the state of Nevada.""Meadow Valley Wash and Clover Creek are valuable, sensitive water resources which provide habitat to many fish species and endangered wildlife, such as the desert tortoise and southwestern willow flycatcher. Union Pacifics long term restoration will restore Meadow Valley Wash and Clover Creek," said Laura Yoshii, Acting Regional Administrator for the Pacific Southwest region. "This significant settlement underscores EPAs commitment to protect valuable water resources in Nevada."The settlement resolves a complaint filed today by the United States against UP for alleged violations of the Clean Water Act stemming from the railroads activities in Clover Creek and Meadow Valley Wash in 2005. In January 2005, UP railroad tracks sustained significant damage following a flood in southern Nevada. The company made time-critical actions to repair damage.However, UP also conducted extensive non-emergency construction and stream alteration work without obtaining the required Clean Water Act permits, which could have minimized and compensated for the damage to the streams. UP's unauthorized discharges included the construction of massive structures to control stream flows, such as dikes, berms, levees and diversions within the stream systems. The structures ranged from five to 15 feet high, and from 20 to thousands of feet long.The Clean Water Act requires anyone engaged in construction within waters of the United States to obtain permits when altering waterways. The Corps of Engineers issues permits to discharge fill in water bodies. The state of Nevada is authorized to issue National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permits for the discharge of pollutants in storm water from construction sites.NoneNone