  WASHINGTON - Almighty Latin King and Queen Nation (ALKQN) member John Guzman, 31, of Big Spring, Texas, was sentenced today to 210 months in prison by U.S. District Judge Sam R. Cummings, announced Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney James T. Jacks for the Northern District of Texas.   Guzman pleaded guilty to a superseding indictment charging him with one count of conspiracy to distribute and possess with intent to distribute five kilograms or more of cocaine and 100 kilograms or more of marijuana.   Guzman has been in custody since his arrest in February 2009.   According to court documents, Guzman admitted that he was a member of a conspiracy that included Jose Robledo Nava, aka Chino; Luis Nava, aka Flaco; Reynaldo Nava, aka Rat; Robert Allen Ramirez, aka Nesyo; Marie Chavez, aka Shorty; Carol Ann Rivas Nava; Cecily Dominique Juarez; Jesus Martinez, aka Solid; David Hellums, aka Cutthroat; Eduardo Daniel Mares, aka Pitt; Gabriel Lee Gonzales; Michael Conde, aka Psycho; Guerrero Olivas, aka Screech; Eliseo Perez, aka Wicked; and others.   Guzman admitted that he and the other participants in the conspiracy agreed to distribute, and possess with intent to distribute, cocaine and marijuana.   Guzman also admitted that he collected drug debts on behalf of the ALKQN.   According to the superseding indictment, Guzman and his co-defendants acquired the cocaine and marijuana from Mexico and brought it to the South Texas region, where it was packaged, stored and transported to Big Spring, Lubbock and Midland, Texas for further distribution.   To date, 17 co-defendants have pleaded guilty and been sentenced for their roles in this conspiracy.   Nava and Cole were found guilty on Feb. 24, 2010, by a federal jury in Lubbock on two counts of using a firearm to commit murder during and in relation to a drug trafficking crime, and one count of a conspiracy to distribute and possess with intent to distribute five kilograms or more of cocaine and 100 kilograms or more of marijuana. The jury also found Nava guilty on one count of possession with intent to distribute 500 grams or more of cocaine, one count of conspiracy to engage in the business of dealing in firearms and one count of possession of stolen firearms.   Nava and Cole were also found guilty for their involvement in a drive-by shooting in Big Spring on May 4, 2008, in which six people were shot with an AK-47 type rifle. According to the evidence presented at trial, the victims included Michael Cardona and Valerie Garcia, who was 26 weeks pregnant at the time of the shooting. Cardona and Garcia ultimately died as a result of their wounds. Evidence presented at trial proved that after the shootings, Nava ordered two of his co-conspirators to destroy the murder weapon.   Nava and Cole face a maximum statutory sentence of life in prison. A sentencing date has not yet been set by the court.   The case was investigated by the National Gang Targeting, Enforcement and Coordination Center (GangTECC); the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force; the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration; the FBI; U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement; the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; the El Paso Intelligence Center; U.S. Customs and Border Protection; the U.S. Marshals Service; the Texas Department of Public Safety; the Police Departments of Lubbock, Midland, Houston, San Antonio and Big Spring, Texas; the Lubbock County, Texas, Sheriffs Office; and the Howard County, Texas, District Attorneys Office.  Trial Attorneys Cody L. Skipper and Joseph A. Cooley of the Criminal Divisions Gang Unit and Assistant U.S. Attorney Denise Williams of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Northern District of Texas prosecuted the case.