  WASHINGTON  The Justice Department announced today that it has filed a  complaint against Midwest Neurosurgeons L.L.C. and its owner, Dr. Sanjay Fonn,  M.D., and DS Medical L.L.C. and its owner, Deborah Seeger, for allegedly  violating the Medicare Anti-Kickback Statute and the False Claims Act by  conspiring to solicit and receive commissions from medical device manufacturers  related to the purchase of spinal implants and supplies used during spinal  fusion surgeries performed by Dr. Fonn.  The Department of Justice remains committed to protecting federal healthcare  programs from unscrupulous providers who seek to take advantage of those  programs, said Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Civil  Division Stuart F. Delery.  We are particularly concerned about schemes such as  this one that not only waste taxpayer money but also pose a potential risk to  patient safety.  The Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits offering, paying, soliciting or receiving  remuneration to induce referrals of items or services covered by Medicare,  Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs.  It is intended to ensure that a  physicians medical judgment is not compromised by improper financial incentives  and is instead based upon the best interests of the patient.  The governments complaint alleges that Dr. Fonn, 46, and his fiance, Ms.  Seeger, 47, both of Cape Girardeau, Missouri, incorporated D.S. Medical L.L.C.  to serve as the distributor of medical devices and supplies to Dr. Fonn and his  neurosurgery practice, Midwest Neurosurgeons L.L.C., in Missouri.  Through D.S.  Medical, Ms. Seeger demanded and was paid exorbitant commissions by medical  device manufacturers for medical devices and supplies purchased by the hospital  where Dr. Fonn performed spinal fusion surgeries.  The hospitals purchases were  based on Dr. Fonns decision to use those devices and supplies during operations  he performed. According to the complaint, once DS Medical started operating, Dr.  Fonn altered the way he practiced medicine, generally using more spinal implants  in each of his surgeries while performing more surgeries than he typically  performed before or after DS Medical was operating.  The commissions paid to  D.S. Medical and Ms. Seeger by the manufacturers were allegedly used to purchase  a house where Dr. Fonn and Seeger cohabited, a boat, an airplane and various  home improvements, which they shared.None  The Commercial Litigation Branch of the Justice Departments Civil Division,  together with the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of Missouri,  filed this case on behalf of the United States with the assistance of the  Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General and the  FBI.None