In two separate cases, two members of the Two Six nation and one member of the Latin Kings were indicted for murder in aid of racketeering and other offenses, announced Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney David A. Capp of the Northern District of Indiana.Prosecutions, like the one announced here, demonstrate the effectiveness of the task force approach to fighting gang violence, said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. Along with our partners, the Criminal Division will aggressively work to release the grip that gangs hold on many neighborhoods across this country.If you are a member of a violent street gang and you committed a murder or other violent act last week or last decade, we are coming at you, said U.S. Attorney Capp. He also reiterated his offices continuing commitment to removing all members of these violent street gangs from the streets on northwest Indiana.Marcus Lovell Jenkins, 26, of East Chicago, Indiana, and Charles Garcia-Berrios, 22, of Hammond, Indiana, were charged by superseding indictment with murder in aid of racketeering and use of a firearm in connection with a crime of violence for their alleged roles in the killing of Kemond Coleman. Jenkins also is charged with possession of a firearm by a prohibited person.According to the allegations in the indictment, Jenkins and Garcia-Berrios are members of the Two Six Nation street gang. The indictment alleges that, on July 26, 2014, Jenkins and Garcia-Berrios shot and killed Coleman for the purpose of maintaining and enhancing their positions within the gang. Garcia-Berrios and Two Six member Julio Ivan Cartagena previously were charged with the attempted murders of two individuals in this case. All three defendants are in federal custody.In a separate case, Anton James, 19, of Hammond, was charged by indictment with murder in aid of racketeering and murder resulting from the use of a firearm during a crime of violence for his alleged role in the murder of Martin Hurtado Sr. According to the allegations in the indictment, James is a member of the Latin Kings street gang. The indictment alleges that, on Oct. 28, 2014, James shot and killed Hurtado Sr. believing that he was Martin Hurtado Jr., whom James believed was a rival gang member. James made his initial appearance in federal court this afternoon before Magistrate Judge Andrew Rodovich of the Northern District of Indiana.An charges and allegations in the indictments are merely allegations. The defendants are presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty.These cases are the result of the investigative efforts of the FBI, the ATF, the East Chicago Police Department, the Hammond Police Department, the Lake County, Indiana, Sheriffs Department and Lake County High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area officers and agents. The Lake County Prosecutors Office also has provided assistance. The Jenkins case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Andrew Creighton of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney David Nozick of the Northern District of Indiana. The James case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Nozick.NoneNone