A federal court has barred a Rapid City, South Dakota, company and its president from further manufacturing and distributing its laser devices, which they marketed to treat a variety of medical conditions and diseases, the Justice Department announced today.U.S. District Court Chief Judge Jeffrey L. Viken for the District of South Dakota entered the preliminary injunction on Wednesday against Robert Larry Lytle and his businesses, QLasers PMA, 2035 PMA, and 2035 INC., in an action filed by the Justice Department to enforce provisions of the federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA). The courts order prohibiting the manufacture and distribution of the QLaser devices also applies to Lytles business affiliates and franchisees.Last October, the Justice Department and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of South Dakota filed a civil complaint for injunctive relief against Lytle and his businesses, alleging that they have been violating the FDCA by nationally marketing Lytles laser devices for the treatment of more than 200 different diseases and medical disorders without clearance or approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The preliminary injunction entered on Wednesday takes effect immediately and will remain in force while the governments case seeking a permanent injunction proceeds to final judgment.Judge Viken found, based on what he called an extensive and well developed record, that Lytle and his various businesses have shown no intent to discontinue their activities and voluntarily comply with the FDCA. The injunction bars the defendants from continuing to market and distribute any medical devices until they receive written permission from the FDA to do so.Lytle, whom the court noted was a dentist in Rapid City until his license to practice dentistry was permanently revoked by the South Dakota Board of Dentistry in 1998, markets the devices by soliciting purchasers to join his private membership associations or PMAs before purchasing his lasers. As the court explained, however, Hiding behind a curtain of private membership associations, 2035 PMA and QLaser PMA, does not shield Mr. Lytle from the authority of the FDCA or the jurisdiction of the court.With the entry of this preliminary injunction, we have taken another step toward ensuring that only medical devices that have been shown to be safe and effective are placed in the hands of the American consumer, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Joyce R. Branda for the Justice Departments Civil Division. Everyone who deals in products that affect peoples health must comply with the FDCA.NoneThe preliminary injunction granted should provide consumers a renewed sense of confidence, said U.S. Attorney Brendan V. Johnson for the District of South Dakota. This action is crucial to prevent the company from continuing to operate on the periphery of the law, and potentially jeopardize the health and safety of its consumers.The FDA referred this enforcement action to the Department of Justice. The governments case is being litigated by Trial Attorney Ross S. Goldstein of the Civil Divisions Consumer Protection Branch, with assistance from the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of South Dakota and the FDAs Office of Chief Counsel.