  Attorney General Eric Holder and the Department of Justices Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA) Director Denise E. ODonnell today announced more than $11 million in awards to address neighborhood-level crime in 15 locations nationwide.The awards, administered through the departments new Byrne Criminal Justice Innovation (BCJI) program, will target locations or neighborhoods with significant levels of crime compared to the overall jurisdiction. Todays announcement includes a $600,000 award to the Center for Court Innovation (CCI) focused on the Brownsville neighborhood of Brooklyn, New York. BJA Director ODonnell was joined by U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of New York Loretta E. Lynch, New York City Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly, and Kings County District Attorney Charles J. Hynes in making the announcement.     BCJI is a part of the Obama Administrations larger Neighborhood Revitalization Initiative (NRI) that helps local and tribal communities develop place-based, community-oriented strategies with coordinated federal support to change neighborhoods of distress into neighborhoods of opportunity. BCJI is a data driven approach, leveraging research and innovation to identify the drivers of crime in a location and to develop multi-faceted strategies to reduce it. BCJI will also develop the ability  through training and technical assistance - of the community to more effectively target these issues.Led by the Administrations Domestic Policy Council, the NRI brings together the Departments of Education, Housing and Urban Development, Justice, Health and Human Services and Treasury to align federal programs supporting neighborhood revitalization and to implement interagency pilot programs.  While overall crime rates have continued to decline nationwide, some neighborhoods have experienced troubling increases in specific types of criminal activity which is why the Department and our partners are providing additional resources to communities that need them the most, said Attorney General Holder. With todays announcement, we reaffirm our commitment to relying on comprehensive, data-driven approaches for ensuring public safety  and investing in innovative strategies for protecting the American people from crime.  Earlier this year, BJA awarded, through an agreement with the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), $2 million in Public Safety Enhancement grants to HUDs Choice Neighborhood grantees in Boston, Chicago, New Orleans and San Francisco. These enhancement grants, also coordinated through NRI, are helping to transform public and assisted housing projects to respond to serious, pervasive public safety concerns in distressed neighborhoods.NoneNone  In times of limited resources, community leaders need tools and information about crime trends in their jurisdiction and support to assess, plan and implement the most effective use of criminal justice resources to address priority crime issues, said BJA Director ODonnell. BCJI incorporates research and effective enforcement and intervention strategies as part of a comprehensive approach to help the community build protective factors to provide a long-term deterrence to future crime.  The Brownsville BCJI project is called The Brownsville Anti-Violence Project and is a partnership that includes the Center for Court Innovation; the Kings County District Attorneys Office; the New York City Police Department; the U.S. Attorneys Office of the Eastern District of New York: the New York State Department of Corrections and Community Supervision; the Pitkin Avenue Business Improvement District; the Brownsville Partnership (consortium of service providers); and local residents.NoneNoneNone