A federal grand jury in Atlanta charged in separate indictments two real estate investors with bid rigging and bank fraud related to public real estate foreclosure auctions in Georgia, the Justice Department announced today. Real estate investor Douglas L. Purdy has been charged with one count of bid rigging and five counts of bank fraud for participating in the alleged conspiracy and scheme at Forsyth County, Georgia, foreclosure auctions from 2008 to 2012. Clifford Wayne Hill was charged with one count of bid rigging and seven counts of bank fraud related to public foreclosure auctions in Gwinnett County, Georgia, from 2007 to 2012. The defendants and their co-conspirators allegedly rigged bids at public foreclosure auctions and defrauded banks that owned the mortgage notes. Among other methods, the conspirators allegedly held secret second auctions of properties they had obtained through rigged bids, dividing the auction proceeds that should have gone to pay off debts against the properties and, in some cases, to homeowners who had defaulted.These defendants corrupted public foreclosure auctions in Georgia to keep for themselves money that rightfully belonged to banks and homeowners, said Assistant Attorney General Bill Baer of the Justice Departments Antitrust Division. Those who illegally enrich themselves at the expense of financially distressed homeowners and their lenders should be held accountable for their crimes.The FBI continues its work with the U.S. Department of Justices Antitrust Division in ridding corrupt activities within the public real estate foreclosure auction process in Georgia, said Special Agent in Charge J. Britt Johnson of the FBIs Atlanta Field Office. The additional federal indictments of these two real estate investors illustrate not only the scope of the problem but also the federal efforts to address it. Anyone with information regarding such criminal activity as alleged here should contact their nearest FBI field office.An indictment is not evidence of guilt. All defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.Including the indictments filed today in the Northern District of Georgia, 14 defendants have been charged in connection with the departments ongoing investigation into bid rigging and fraudulent schemes involving real estate foreclosure auctions in the Atlanta area; 12 have pleaded guilty. NoneNoneNone