The Justice Department reached a settlement agreement today with Provisional Staffing Solutions (Provisional), a temporary staffing agency located in Cranston, Rhode Island. The agreement resolves the departments investigation into whether Provisional discriminated against non-U.S. citizens when checking their work authorization documents, in violation of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA).The departments investigation concluded that Provisional routinely requested that non-U.S. citizens present specific identity documents to prove their work authorization, such as a Permanent Resident Card (PRC), while not requesting a specific identity document from U.S. citizens. Lawful permanents residents and other work-authorized non-U.S. citizens often have the same identity and work authorization documents available to them as U.S. citizens, and may choose from among the acceptable documents to prove they are authorized to work. The antidiscrimination provision of the INA prohibits employers from subjecting employees to unnecessary documentary demands based on the employees citizenship or national origin.Under the settlement, Provisional must pay a civil penalty of $16,290 to the United States, post notices informing workers about their rights under the INAs antidiscrimination provision, train their human resources personnel and be subject to departmental monitoring and reporting requirements."The Justice Department cautions employers not to erect discriminatory barriers to employment," said Acting Assistant Attorney General Tom Wheeler of the Civil Rights Division. "Companies large and small must ensure that their Form I-9 practices comply with federal law. We appreciate Provisionals cooperation with the Department to address this issue."NoneNoneApplicants or employees who believe they were subjected to different documentary requirements based on their citizenship, immigration status, or national origin; or discrimination based on their citizenship, immigration status, or national origin in hiring, firing, or recruitment or referral, should contact IERs worker hotline for assistance.None