A former U.S. Congressman and one of his associates were indicted today for their roles in orchestrating a scheme to steal hundreds of thousands of dollars from charitable foundations and the individuals who ran those foundations. Some of the funds were allegedly used to illegally finance the politicians campaigns for public office and to pay for his personal expenses and those of his associates. Acting Assistant Attorney General Kenneth A. Blanco of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, Acting U.S. Attorney Abe Martinez of the Southern District of Texas, Assistant Director in Charge Andrew W. Vale of the FBI's Washington Field Office and Special Agent in Charge D. Richard Goss of IRS Criminal Investigations (CI) Houston Field Office made the announcement.NoneShortly after Stockman took office in the U.S. House of Representatives in 2013, he and Dodd allegedly used the name of a nonprofit entity to solicit and receive a $350,000 charitable donation. Stockman allegedly used this donation for a variety of personal and campaign expenses, including illegal conduit campaign contributions, a covert surveillance project targeting a perceived political opponent and payments associated with Stockmans U.S. Senate campaign in early 2014. The superseding indictment further alleges that, in connection with Stockmans Senate campaign, Posey used a nonprofit entity to secure a $450,571 donation in order to fund a mass-mailing project attacking Stockmans opponent. Only approximately half of the donation was spent on the mail campaign, and Posey used a portion of the unspent balance to pay for expenses associated with Stockmans Senate campaign and to fund personal expenses, according to the charges.The charges and allegations contained in the superseding indictment are merely accusations. The defendants are presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty.The FBI and IRS-CI conducted the investigation. Trial Attorneys Ryan J. Ellersick and Robert J. Heberle of the Criminal Divisions Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Melissa Annis of the Southern District of Texas are prosecuting the case. 