  The Department of Justice  announced today that it will require Martin Marietta Materials Inc. to divest  one Oklahoma quarry and two Texas rail yards in order to proceed with its  proposed $2.7 billion acquisition of Texas Industries Inc. The department said  that, without the divestiture, the proposed acquisition likely would result in  higher prices for purchasers of aggregate  crushed stone produced at quarries  or mines  in parts of the Dallas metropolitan area.   The department's Antitrust  Division and the state of Texas filed a civil antitrust lawsuit today in the  U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia to block the proposed  transaction.  At the same time, the department filed a proposed settlement that,  if approved by the court, would resolve the department's competitive concerns  alleged in the lawsuit.   "Todays proposed settlement will  help ensure that aggregate purchasers in parts of the Dallas metropolitan area  will continue to receive the benefits of vigorous competition," said Bill Baer,  Assistant Attorney General in charge of the department's Antitrust Division.   Without the divestiture obtained by the Antitrust Division, customers would  have likely faced higher prices as a result of this acquisition."   Aggregate is used in a variety of  applications, such as road construction, and for the production of ready mix  concrete and asphalt.   The department said that the  proposed merger would have likely resulted in increased prices for customers  handling Texas Department of Transportation projects in parts of the Dallas  metropolitan area.  The Texas Department of Transportation  like many other  state Departments of Transportation  sets specifications for the type of  aggregate approved for use in those projects.  In Dallas County and parts of the  surrounding area, Martin Marietta and Texas Industries are two of the only three  suppliers of Texas Department of Transportation-approved aggregate.   Under the terms of the proposed  consent decree, Martin Marietta must divest its North Troy aggregate quarry in  Mill Creek, Oklahoma, its rail yard in Dallas, and its rail yard in Frisco,  Texas.  All of these assets predominantly serve parts of the Dallas metropolitan  area.  Under the proposed settlement, the department's Antitrust Division must  approve the buyer of the divested assets.   Martin Marietta Materials Inc. is  incorporated in North Carolina with its headquarters in Raleigh, North  Carolina.  Martin Marietta produces, distributes and/or markets aggregate for  the construction industry in 29 states and it produces aggregate in Nova Scotia,  Canada, and the Bahamas for distribution and sale at numerous terminals and  yards along the East Coast of the United States.  In 2013, Martin Marietta had  net sales of $2.1 billion.   Texas Industries Inc. is  incorporated in Delaware with its headquarters in Dallas.  Texas Industries  produces, distributes and/or markets aggregate in five states  Texas, Oklahoma,  Louisiana, Arkansas and California.  Texas Industries also produces asphalt  concrete, ready mix concrete and cement.  In 2013, Texas Industries had net  sales of $800 million.   As required by the Tunney Act,  the proposed consent decree, along with the department's competitive impact  statement, will be published in the Federal Register.  Any person may submit  written comments concerning the proposed decree during a 60-day comment period  to Maribeth Petrizzi, Chief, Litigation II Section, Antitrust Division, U.S.  Department of Justice, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Suite 8700, Washington, D.C.  20530.  At the conclusion of the 60-day comment period, the court may enter the  final judgment upon a finding that it serves the public interest.