Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein today announced that Robert K. Hur will serve as the Principal Associate Deputy Attorney General and James A. Crowell IV will be the Chief of Staff to the Deputy Attorney General.Robert Hur and James Crowell have served with distinction in a variety of roles in the Department of Justice, said Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein. Their experience and judgment will advance our efforts to deter crime, promote the rule of law, and ensure equal justice for everyone.ROBERT K. HURHur previously was a law firm partner in Washington, D.C., where he represented clients in criminal and regulatory enforcement actions before the U.S. Justice Department, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, and other federal agencies, as well as related civil litigation. Hur also served as Hiring Partner for the firms Washington, D.C. office. From 2003 to 2005, he served at Main Justice as Special Assistant and later Counsel to the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Criminal Division, where he handled counterterrorism, corporate fraud, and appellate matters.Hur also served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the United States Attorneys Office for the District of Maryland from 2007 to 2014, where he prosecuted complex financial and regulatory offenses, including financial institutions fraud, criminal violations of the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, mortgage fraud, tax offenses, and public corruption as well as intellectual property-related matters involving electronic surveillance, computer network intrusions, and theft of intellectual property. Hur received the Attorney Generals Distinguished Service Award for superior performance and excellence as a lawyer.Hur began his legal career as a law clerk for the late William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the United States, and Judge Alex Kozinski of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.Hur received his A.B. from Harvard College and his J.D. from Stanford Law School.JAMES A. CROWELL IVBefore joining the Deputy Attorney General's office, Crowell was the Criminal Chief in the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Maryland, where he oversaw the work of over 85 Assistant U.S. Attorneys involved in criminal prosecutions, including national security, violent crime, fraud and corruption, cybercrime, narcotics, asset forfeiture, and money laundering, as well as the Anti-Terrorism Advisory Council, Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force, Project Safe Child, Project Safe Neighborhoods, and related anti-crime programs. Crowell also served as the Chief of the Southern Division. Crowell has worked in the U.S. Attorneys Office in the District of Maryland since 2007, when he began as an Assistant United States Attorney.Prior to joining the U.S. Attorneys Office, from 2003 to 2007, Crowell was a Trial Attorney in the Criminal Divisions Public Integrity Section, the office that oversees the federal effort to combat corruption through the prosecution of officials and employees at all levels of government. Crowell is the recipient of numerous law enforcement awards, including all three of the Department of Defenses highest civilian awards, recognizing his effort to combat contract fraud and corruption involving military contracts. For his prosecution of public corruption cases, Crowell received the Attorney Generals Distinguished Service Award for superior performance and excellence as a lawyer.Crowell began his career with the Department through the Attorney Generals Honors program as a Trial Attorney in the Antitrust Divisions Criminal Section in 2001, following his clerkship with Judge Charles A. Pannell, Jr. of the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia.Crowell received his B.A. from Hampden-Sydney College and his J.D. from Boston University School of Law. Crowell has also served in the United States Army Reserve since 1994.