Costco Pharmacies Filled Prescriptions that Were Improper or IncompleteCostco Wholesale will pay $11.75 million to settle allegations that its pharmacies violated the Controlled Substances Act when they improperly filled prescriptions for controlled substances.The settlement resolves allegations that Costco pharmacies filled prescriptions that were incomplete, lacked valid Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) numbers or were for substances beyond various doctors scope of practice.Additionally, the settlement resolves allegations that Costco failed to keep and maintain accurate records for controlled substances at its pharmacies and centralized fill locations.The settlement was announced today by U.S. Attorneys Annette L. Hayes of the Western District of Washington, Michael C. Ormsby of the Eastern District of Washington, Eileen M. Decker of the Central District of California, Barbara L. McQuade of the Eastern District of Michigan and Phillip A. Talbert of the Eastern District of California.Pharmacies across this country are on the leading edge of the battle against our prescription drug abuse crisis, said U.S. Attorney Hayes.A company such as Costco that distributes a significant volume of controlled substances has a responsibility to ensure it complies with regulations that help prevent opioids and other dangerous drugs from being misused or otherwise added to the illegal marketplace.I commend the DEA investigators for uncovering the violations at issue in this case, and working with Costco to ensure that systems are put in place to prevent controlled substances from ending up in the wrong hands.Last year, over 50,000 Americans died as a result of drug overdoses, many of which were related to the misuse of prescription drugs.This settlement demonstrates the accountability and responsibility that go along with handling controlled prescription drugs, said DEA Assistant Administrator Louis Milione.DEA works every day to reinforce good corporate practices through outreach and education efforts and, when appropriate, with administrative and criminal action.Under the settlement reached Jan. 18, 2017, Costco acknowledges that between Jan. 1, 2012 and Dec. 31, 2015, certain Costco Pharmacies dispensed controlled substances inconsistent with their compliance obligations under the Controlled Substances Act (CSA) and its implementing regulations.The violations include: filling prescriptions from practitioners who did not have a valid DEA number; incorrectly recording the practitioners DEA number; filling prescriptions outside the scope of a practitioners DEA registration; filling prescriptions that did not contain all the required information; failing to maintain accurate dispensing records; and failing to maintain records for their central fill locations in Sacramento, California, and Everett, Washington.In light of the prescription pill and opioid overdose epidemic we are seeing across the country, compliance with regulations governing pharmacies is more important than ever, saidU.S. Attorney McQuade.We applaud Costco for working with DEA and taking steps to tighten up its compliance to ensure that prescription pills do not end up on the street market.These are not just administrative or paperwork violations  Costcos failure to have proper controls in place in its pharmacies played a role in prescription drugs reaching the black market, said U.S. Attorney Decker.Costco pharmacies in Southern California filled numerous prescriptions for drugs that should not have been sold to consumers because of its flawed system for validating DEA registration numbers.Opioid misuse has reached epidemic levels in the United States. This important matter is yet another example of the tenacious dedication ofDrug Enforcement Administration investigators in uncovering and addressing corporate regulatory noncompliance, said U.S. Attorney Ormsby.The DEA must be commended for its superb efforts in combating the opioid problem at so many different levels, including regulatory compliance. Pharmacies are the gatekeepers responsible for ensuring the lawful use of powerful drugs that have a legitimate medical purpose but are easily abused.The CSA provides the statutory oversight to ensure that pharmacies keep meticulous records, said U.S. Attorney Talbert.The successful resolution of this matter demonstrates the Department of Justices commitment to enforcing the CSA.NoneThis case was investigated by DEA Diversion Groups in Seattle, Los Angeles, Sacramento and Detroit.While this settlement is national in scope, the settlement was negotiated by the United States Attorneys Offices in the Western and Eastern Districts of Washington, Central and Eastern Districts of California and Eastern District of Michigan.