Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch presided over the Justice Departments Missing Childrens Day ceremony on Wednesday, May 20, 2015, at 2 p.m. The event honored three law enforcement officers and an assistant principal for their efforts to recover missing children, rescue children from abuse and prosecute sexual predators.This Department of Justice will never pause; will never rest; and will never cease in our effort toprotect this countrys young people," said Attorney General Lynch. "We will do everything we canto find children who have gone missing, to reunite them with their loved ones, and to stand beside them and their families as they do the hard work necessary to recover their lives and restore their futures. And we will continue to expand and advance this work together."Speakers included Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Justice Programs Karol V. Mason, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention (OJJDP) Administrator Robert L. Listenbee, and an abduction survivor and child advocate Carlina White. More than 250 people attended the annual ceremony, including families of missing children, law enforcement officers, advocates, and others who support programs to recover missing and exploited children.During the ceremony, the department recognized efforts to protect children and presented the following awards:NoneNoneNoneNoneSince 2000, OJJDP has also hosted a national poster contest for fifth-graders to raise greater awareness about missing children. This year Sydney Kekel from City School in Grand Blanc, Michigan, received the Missing Childrens Day Art Contest Award.Affirming its long-standing commitment to help find missing children, the U.S. Postal Service issued a new stamp on May 18, 2015. Designed by Ethel Kessler, the new Forever stamp features a photograph by Harald Biebel showing a small bunch of purple forget-me-nots with a lone flower against a white background. The forget-me-not is the symbol for International Missing Childrens Day, which occurs on the same day as National Missing Childrens Day, May 25.President Ronald Reagan proclaimed May 25, 1983, the first National Missing Childrens Day to remember Etan Patz, a six-year-old boy who disappeared from a New York City street corner on May 25, 1979. Missing Childrens Day honors his memory and the memories of children still missing.About the Office of Justice Programs (OJP)None