  The Department of Justice today announced that Luke J. McCormack will become its new chief information officer (CIO), arriving in late March.   McCormack will provide leadership and oversight of the departments information technology programs and services in support of the departments technology-intensive law enforcement mission.   McCormack will replace Vance Hitch who left the department in August 2011.   Eric R. Olson, deputy CIO, has served as acting CIO since Hitchs departure.   Olson will continue to serve as deputy CIO. None   The Office of the CIO provides strategic direction, management services, and oversight to cross-component information technology efforts, and provides IT infrastructure services such as telecommunications, desktop and data center services, and IT security.   Prior to joining the department, McCormack was the CIO of the Department of Homeland Securitys (DHS) Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) since July 2005.   In that capacity, he was responsible for all aspects of the information technology portfolio, including strategic planning, enterprise architecture and cybersecurity.   During his tenure at ICE, he strengthened the agencys cybersecurity and infrastructure operations and modernized a variety of business systems.None  McCormack served as acting director of DHS Customs and Border Protections (CBP) infrastructure services division from January 2004 to July 2005.   While there, he managed the design, implementation and operation of the customer information technology infrastructure.   McCormack has served in other roles in CBP, including director of architecture and engineering, and as director of systems engineering.      He has received numerous awards and honors, including the Secretary of Homeland Securitys silver awardthe second highest award at DHSand a presidential meritorious award for his outstanding efforts in information technology.   McCormack received his M.B.A. from the University of Marylands Smith School of Business in 2005.   A native of Long Island, N.Y., Mr. McCormack has two sons and resides in Virginia.   