  The Department of Justice and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) will hold three community meetings in Corpus Christi, Texas next week to assist area residents who have suffered immediate negative health effects from emissions from the CITGO refinery.      The community meetings will be held at the Oveal Williams Senior Living Center at 1414 Martin Luther King Drive in Corpus Christi on the following dates:NoneNoneNoneNone None   Under the Crime Victims Rights Act, persons who are directly and proximately harmed by the commission of a crime are crime victims and have certain, enumerated rights under the law. In this instance, community members may be considered crime victims based on the immediate negative health effects they suffered from breathing noxious fumes from Tanks 116 and 117 during the 1994  2003 time frame.   Persons who will be seeking restitution for financial losses or health costs should bring or submit supporting documentation.   At the community meeting, the Texas Environmental Crimes Task Force, made up of agents from the U.S. EPA, Texas Commission on Environmental Quality, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Texas Parks and Wildlife, and the FBI, along with the Victim/Witness Section of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of Texas, will be on hand to provide Victim Impact Statements and answer questions.   In June 2007, a jury convicted CITGO Petroleum Corporation and CITGO Refining and Chemicals Company L.P. for illegally operating two massive tanks at their Corpus Christi East Plant Refinery between January 1994 and March 2002. The tanks were the source of emissions including benzene, a known carcinogen, which may have affected persons in the surrounding communities of Hillcrest and Oak Park.   Witnesses at the trial testified that emissions from the tanks could be detected in Oak Park and Hillcrest in the form of strong gaseous type odors.   On Sept. 25 and 26, 2007, the U.S. Department of Justice and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency held community meetings in Corpus Christi during which more than 300 persons submitted victim impact statements.   The current order is to identify any additional persons who may qualify as crime victims.