NoneOn Jan. 14, 2010, in the Northern District of New York, the United States sought to join a lawsuit filed by the New York Civil Liberties Union on behalf of a student, J.L., who was the alleged victim of severe and pervasive student-on-student harassment based on sex. According to the United States motion, J.L. failed to conform to gender stereotypes in both behavior and appearance. He exhibited feminine mannerisms, dyed his hair, wore makeup and nail polish, and maintained predominantly female friendships. The United States alleged that the harassment against J.L. escalated from derogatory name-calling to physical threats and violence.The United States further alleged that the Mohawk Central School District had knowledge of the harassment, that the school district was deliberately indifferent in its failure to take timely, corrective action, and that the deliberate indifference restricted J.L.s ability to fully enjoy the educational opportunities and benefits of his school. The district denied these allegations.The settlement among the United States, private plaintiff and the district was approved yesterday by the U.S. District Court in the Northern District of New York and requires the Mohawk Central School District to, among other things: (1) retain an expert consultant in the area of harassment and discrimination based on sex, gender identity, gender expression, and sexual orientation to review the Districts policies and procedures; (2)develop and implement a comprehensive plan for disseminating the Districts harassment and discrimination policies and procedures; (3) retain an expert consultant to conduct annual training for faculty and staff, and students as deemed appropriate by the expert, on discrimination and harassment based on sex, gender identity, gender expression, and sexual orientation; (4) maintain records of investigations and responses to allegations of harassment for five years; and (5)provide annual compliance reports to the United States and private plaintiffs. As part of this settlement, $50,000 will be paid to J.L. and $25,000 in attorneys fees will be paid to the New York Civil Liberties Foundation.All students have the right to go to school without fearing harassment based on sex, including stereotypes about appropriate gender behavior, said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division. Such conduct has no place in our schools, and the Justice Department looks forward to working with the District and the NYCLU to ensure that all students enjoy educational opportunities without discrimination or harassment.None