None None   The Brannons and their company were also charged with conspiring to use the U.S. mail to carry out a fraudulent scheme to acquire title to rigged foreclosure properties sold at public auctions at artificially suppressed prices, to make and receive payoffs to co-conspirators, and to cause financial institutions, homeowners and others with a legal interest in rigged foreclosure properties to receive less than the competitive price for the properties. The Brannons and their company are charged with participating in the bid-rigging and mail fraud conspiracies from as early as October 2004 until at least August 2007.   The conspirators subverted the competitive bidding process by engaging in a collusive scheme to artificially depress prices at real estate foreclosure auctions and to defraud financial institutions and homeowners out of money and property, said Renata B. Hesse, Acting Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Department of Justices Antitrust Division. Todays guilty pleas send a strong message that the division is committed to prosecuting those who fraudulently subvert competition for their own financial gain.   The success of this investigation represents the FBIs staunch commitment to target and investigate those who are willing to abuse and exploit illegal advantages during this legal process for personal gain at the expense of suffering citizens and businesses,said Acting Special Agent in Charge of the FBIs Mobile Division Stephen E. Richardson.   Including todays pleas, to date, eight individualsHarold H. Buchman, Allen K. French, Bobby Threlkeld Jr., Steven J. Cox, Lawrence B. Stacy, David R. Bradley and the Brannonsand two companiesM & B Builders LLC and J & R Properties have pleaded guilty in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Alabama in connection with this ongoing investigation.   Each violation of the Sherman Act carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $1 million fine for individuals, and a $100 million fine for companies. The maximum fine for a Sherman Act charge may be increased to twice the gain derived from the crime or twice the loss suffered by the victims of the crime if either amount is greater than the statutory maximum fine. Each count of conspiracy to commit mail fraud carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and a fine of $250,000 for individuals, and a fine of $500,000 for companies. The fine may be increased to twice the gross gain the conspirators derived from the crime or twice the gross loss caused to the victims of the crime by the conspirators. None None