None   Enacted in 1986, the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act (UOCAVA) protects the right of service members to vote in federal elections regardless of where they are stationed.   This law requires that states and territories allow members of the U.S. Uniformed Services and merchant marine, their family members and U.S. citizens residing outside the United States to register and vote absentee in elections for federal offices.   UOCAVA was expanded significantly in 2009, when Congress passed the Military and Overseas Voter Empowerment (MOVE) Act to provide greater protections for service members, their families and other overseas citizens. Among other provisions, the MOVE Act requires states to transmit validly-requested absentee ballots to UOCAVA voters no later than 45 days before a federal election, when the request has been received by that date, except where the state has been granted an undue hardship waiver approved by the Department of Defense for that election.   The Department of Defense determines whether to grant waivers to states that are unable to comply with the MOVE Act requirement to mail ballots by the 45th day before a federal election. This year, 12 states applied for waivers.None   In the past several months, the department has worked to aggressively enforce UOCAVA and the MOVE Act in order to ensure that all military and overseas voters can exercise their right to vote, and have their votes counted, in the upcoming federal election on Nov. 2, 2010.   The department has devoted significant resources to ensuring successful implementation of the MOVE Act including forming a team of attorneys to monitor state compliance with the Acts requirements.   None   The department has filed five lawsuits against states (Wisconsin, Guam, New York, New Mexico and Illinois) to date to compel compliance with the law.None   The department has reached out-of-court agreements with nine other jurisdictions (Alaska, Colorado, DC, Hawaii, Kansas, Mississippi, Nevada, North Dakota and Virgin Islands) to ensure timely receipt of ballots by overseas and military voters.   These agreements generally require relief such as mailing out the ballots by the 45th day, an extension of time to count ballots that are received after election day where the ballots were mailed later than the 45th day; express delivery of ballots that were not sent by the 45th day; and notice to affected voters.None 