WASHINGTON- The Justice Department today announced an agreement with Smyth County, Va., to improve access to all aspects of civic life for persons with disabilities. The agreement was reached under Project Civic Access (PCA), the departments wide-ranging initiative to ensure that cities, towns and counties throughout the country comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).PCA was initiated to ensure that persons with disabilities have an equal opportunity to participate in civic life, a fundamental part of American society. As part of the PCA initiative, Justice Department investigators, attorneys and architects survey state and local government facilities, services and programs in communities across the country to identify the modifications needed for compliance with ADA requirements. The agreements are tailored to address the steps each community must take to improve access. This agreement is the 179th under the PCA initiative.Access to civic life is a fundamental part of American society and is necessary for individuals with disabilities to be full members of their communities, said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General of the Civil Rights Division. Communities and workplaces across the nation have become more accessible for Americas nearly 50 million people with disabilities due to cooperative actions taken by entities like Smyth County. We hope that all local governments are committed to achieving full compliance with the ADA, particularly as we approach the 20th anniversary of this landmark civil rights law in July." Under the agreement announced today, Smyth County will take several important steps to improve access for individuals with disabilities, such as:Smyth County, named to honor General Alexander Smyth, was created in 1832. Two-thirds of the 435 square miles of the county came from neighboring Washington County, and one-third from Wythe County. According to 2000 census data, 24.9 percent of people living in Smyth County  nearly one in every four residents  is an individual with a disability.None None