None  Former CBP Officer Juan Carlos Guerrero, 39, of Mission, Texas, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Andrew S. Hanen in the Southern District of Texas to one count of substantive bribery, one count of conspiracy to commit bribery and one count of alien smuggling conspiracy. Guerreros girlfriend Claudia Flores, 34, of Mission; Maribel Rivera, 43, of Mission; and Rodolfo Caballero Rojas, 40, of Oklahoma City, each pleaded guilty today before Judge Hanen to separate informations charging each of them with one count of conspiracy to commit bribery and alien smuggling.None  According to court documents, between approximately January 2009 and approximately May 2011, Guerrero and Flores organized a bribery and alien smuggling operation, whereby Guerrero, Flores, Rivera, Rojas, Guerreros nephew Jose Cantu and other co-conspirators arranged for undocumented aliens (UDAs) from Mexico to be smuggled into the United States through Guerreros inspection lanes at the Hidalgo POE, Pharr POE and Anzalduas POE, in exchange for bribe payments ranging from $500 to $3,000 per UDA. Guerrero admitted that he organized and directed a total of at least approximately 80 to 150 different smuggling events, in which he knowingly permitted approximately 80 to 165 UDAs to gain illegal entry into the United States.  According to court documents, Flores admitted that she helped Guerrero organize and direct a total of at least approximately 50 to 75 of the illegal crossings, in which approximately 50 to 100 UDAs gained illegal entry into the United States. Rivera admitted that she assisted Guerrero and Flores by identifying and soliciting UDAs, communicating smuggling prices and details of the illegal crossings to UDAs, and collecting bribe payments from the UDAs on Guerrero and Floress behalf. Rojas admitted, among other things, that he assisted Guerrero by personally driving UDAs through Guerreros inspection lane at the Anzalduas POE and that he paid Guerrero a bribe of approximately $1,500 as payment for Guerreros decision to permit a UDA to pass illegally through his inspection lane.None  The charge of bribery carries a maximum penalty of 15 years in prison and a maximum fine of $250,000 or twice the gain or loss. The charge of conspiracy carries a maximum penalty of five years in prison and a maximum fine of $250,000 or twice the gain or loss. The charge of conspiracy to commit alien smuggling for private financial gain carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a maximum fine of $250,000 or twice the gain or loss. Sentencing for Guerrero, Flores, Rivera, Rojas and Cantu is scheduled for March 18, 2013  The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Edward J. Loya Jr. and J.P. Cooney of the Criminal Divisions Public Integrity Section. The case is being investigated by agents from the FBIs South Texas Border Corruption Task Force, which includes agents from the FBI, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Office of Professional Responsibility, CBP Office of Internal Affairs, U.S. Department of Homeland Security Office of Inspector General, CBP U.S. Border Patrol and the Texas Rangers Division.