WASHINGTONThe Justice Department today announced settlement agreements with the city of Muskegon, Mich., and the city of Cheyenne, Wyo., to improve access to public programs and facilities for persons with disabilities. The agreements with the cities of Muskegon and Cheyenne were reached under Project Civic Access, the departments wide-ranging initiative to ensure that cities, towns and counties throughout the country comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). Under the agreement with Muskegon, which will be in effect for five years, the city will take numerous important steps to improve access for individuals with disabilities, such as:Access to public programs and facilities is a civil right, and individuals with disabilities must have the opportunity to participate in public programs, services and activities on an equal basis with their neighbors, said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General of the Civil Rights Division. The agreement with the city of Muskegon reflects a major commitment by city officials to make Muskegons programs and facilities accessible, including a commitment to install large numbers of curb ramps at sidewalks, pedestrian crossings and transportation stops. I commend Muskegons officials for making this commitment to its residents with disabilities, and for working with us to attain equal access to all of its programs, activities and services. The agreement with the city of Cheyenne will improve access to a multi-use arena, which primarily hosts ice sports, concerts and other entertainment events. The department initiated an investigation of the arena after receiving several complaints alleging that the facility was not accessible to individuals with mobility disabilities. Under the agreement, the city of Cheyenne will make physical modifications so that parking, locker rooms, toilet rooms, the billiards and video game area, the mini-golf course, drinking fountains, and routes to entrances and facility amenities are accessible to individuals with disabilities. Modifications will include:The city of Cheyenne willingly worked with the department to resolve these access issues at the arena, which were inherited from another entity when the city acquired the arena in 2008, said Assistant Attorney General Perez. I commend Cheyennes public officials for working cooperatively to afford equal access to this entertainment venue for its residents and visitors with disabilities. Todays agreements were reached under Title II of the ADA, which prohibits discrimination against individuals with disabilities by state and local governments.  The department will actively monitor compliance with these agreements until it has confirmed that all required actions have been completed. Project Civic Access (PCA) was initiated to ensure that persons with disabilities have an equal opportunity to participate in civic life, a fundamental part of American society. As part of the PCA initiative, Justice Department investigators, attorneys and architects survey state and local government facilities, services and programs in communities across the country to identify the modifications needed for compliance with ADA requirements. The agreements are tailored to address the steps each community must take to improve access. None