Citizens Medical Center, a county-owned hospital in Victoria, Texas, has agreed to pay the United States $21,750,000 to settle allegations that it violated the False Claims Act by engaging in improper financial relationships with referring physicians, the Justice Department announced today.The Department of Justice has longstanding concerns about improper financial relationships between health care providers and their referral sources, because those relationships can alter a physicians judgment about the patients true health care needs and drive up health care costs for everybody, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer of the Justice Departments Civil Division. In addition to yielding a recovery for taxpayers, this settlement should deter similar conduct in the future and help make health care more affordable.Any type of false claim or improper behavior under our health care fraud laws are serious allegations that will not be taken lightly, said U.S. Attorney Kenneth Magidson of the Southern District of Texas. The settlement announced today represents the effectiveness of our continuing efforts and an example of our priorities in this arena.The settlement announced today resolved allegations that the hospital provided compensation to several cardiologists that exceeded the fair market value of their services. The settlement also resolved allegations that the hospital paid bonuses to emergency room physicians that improperly took into account the value of their cardiology referrals. The United States contended that these agreements violated the Stark Statute and the False Claims Act. The Stark Statute restricts the financial relationships that hospitals may have with doctors who refer patients to them.NoneThis settlement illustrates the governments emphasis on combating health care fraud and marks another achievement for the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT) initiative, which was announced in May 2009 by the Attorney General and the Secretary of Health and Human Services. The partnership between the two departments has focused efforts to reduce and prevent Medicare and Medicaid financial fraud through enhanced cooperation. One of the most powerful tools in this effort is the False Claims Act. Since January 2009, the Justice Department has recovered a total of more than $24 billion through False Claims Act cases, with more than $15.3 billion of that amount recovered in cases involving fraud against federal health care programs.None