Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch traveled to Cincinnati, Ohio, today for the first stop in her national Community Policing Tour to highlight collaborative programs and policing practices designed to advance public safety, strengthen police-community relations and foster mutual trust and respect. The Attorney General also announced that she will visit Birmingham, Alabama; Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; East Haven, Connecticut; Seattle, Washington; and Richmond, California.The Attorney General was joined by U.S. Attorney Carter M. Stewart for the Southern District of Ohio, Director Ron Davis for the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Office, Mayor John Cranley for the city Cincinnati, and Cincinnati Police Chief Jeffrey Blackwell.While in Cincinnati, the Attorney General met with youth and law enforcement at Chase Elementary School to witness firsthand the citys Right to Read Program in which Cincinnati police officers work with University of Cincinnati students to mentor and tutor children. At Chase Elementary, the Attorney General played Jeopardy with the elementary school students. She, the Attorney General, was gratified to hear how the young students described police as peace keepers and protectors of the community. In her remarks to the students and local officers, the Attorney General said, Its tremendous what youve been doing, to show how integral law enforcement can be in the lives of our communities. She also described the innovative approach in Cincinnati as a model for other departments to follow.After visiting the school, the Attorney General spoke briefly to reporters and took a few questions about her interactions with the children and the importance of community policing.What I saw were children being engaged, children learning, children finding that learning can be fun, children learning about senses  about the world around them  at an age where, I think educators will tell you, it is really crucial that we not lose our children and they not fall out of the educational system and that they develop that love for learning, Attorney General Lynch told reporters. But I also saw children who were aware of the larger community around them and had a very good sense of what law enforcement does  law enforcement at its best because they are seeing law enforcement at best. So in their interactions in the future they will have that context into which to put them as well as law enforcement will have those interactions into which to put them.NoneFollowing her meeting with police officers, the Attorney General ate lunch with U.S. Attorney Stewart, COPS Director Davis, and Cincinnati Police Chief Blackwell at local restaurant Skyline Chili.Following a tour led by the curator of the National Underground Railroad Freedom Center, the Attorney General convened a meeting with city officials, law enforcement, local and faith leaders, young people and other members of the community to discuss ways in which the success Cincinnati has seen in building trust between law enforcement and the community can be replicated in cities across the nation.NoneThe Attorney General also visited with Department of Justice employees at the office of the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Ohio. Following that meeting, the Attorney General met with the family of John Crawford III, a 22-year African-American man, was shot and killed by a Beavercreek, Ohio police officer inside a Wal-Mart store while Crawford held a BB gun.