  The owner and operator of a Louisiana-based durable medical equipment (DME) company was sentenced today to serve 97 months in prison for his role in a $6.7 million Medicare fraud scheme, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Departments Criminal Division; U.S. Attorney Kenneth Magidson of the Southern District of Texas; and Special Agent in Charge Mike Fields of the Dallas Regional Office of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of the Inspector General (HHS-OIG).  Kenny Msiakii, 45, of Houston, was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Nancy Atlas in the Southern District of Texas. In addition to his prison term, Msiakii was sentenced to serve three years of supervised release and ordered to pay $2.5 million in restitution. On Dec. 13, 2012, a federal jury found Msiakii guilty of eight counts of health care fraud.  According to court documents, Msiakii was the owner and operator of Joy Supply and General Services, a company based in Shreveport, La., that purported to provide orthotics and other DME, including power wheelchairs, to Medicare beneficiaries.  Msiakii used Joy Supplys Medicare provider number to submit claims to Medicare for DME, including orthotic devices, that were medically unnecessary and, in some cases, never provided. Many of the orthotic devices were components of arthritis kits and purported to be for the treatment of arthritis-related conditions; however, the devices were neither medically necessary nor appropriate for such conditions. The arthritis kit generally contained a number of orthotic devices including braces for both sides of the body and related accessories such as heat pads.  According to court documents, from November 2007 through September 2009, Msiakii submitted claims of approximately $6.7 million to Medicare and was paid approximately $3.6 million for devices that were not medically necessary and, in some cases, never provided.  This case is being prosecuted by Assistant Chief Laura M.K. Cordova of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section. The case was brought as part of the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, supervised by the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of Texas and the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section.  Since its inception in March 2007, the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, now operating in nine cities across the country, has charged more than 1,500 defendants who have collectively billed the Medicare program for more than $5 billion. In addition, HHSs Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, working in conjunction with HHS-OIG, is taking steps to increase accountability and decrease the presence of fraudulent providers.  To learn more about the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT), go to: www.stopmedicarefraud.gov.