  MIAMI  Six individuals located in South Florida and Pakistan have been indicted in the Southern District of Florida on charges of providing financing and other material support to the Pakistani Taliban, a designated foreign terrorist organization.   The charges were announced today by Wifredo A. Ferrer, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Florida; John V. Gillies, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Miami Field Office, and the members of the South Florida Joint Terrorism Task Force (JTTF). None   All six defendants are charged with conspiring to provide, and providing, material support to a conspiracy to murder, maim and kidnap persons overseas, as well as conspiring to provide material support to a foreign terrorist organization, specifically, the Pakistani Taliban. Defendants Khan, Rehman and Zeb are also charged with providing material support to the Pakistani Taliban.      FBI agents arrested Hafiz Khan and his son Izhar Khan today in South Florida.   They are scheduled to make their initial appearance in federal court in Miami at 1:30 p.m. on Monday, May 16, 2011.   In addition, Irfan Khan was arrested in Los Angeles and is expected to make his initial appearance there.   If convicted, each faces a potential 15 years in prison for each count of the indictment.   The remaining defendants are at large in Pakistan.   The defendants are originally from Pakistan.   Hafiz Khan is the Imam at the Miami Mosque, also known as the Flagler Mosque, in Miami.   His son, Izhar Khan, is an Imam at the Jamaat Al-Mumineen Mosque in Margate, Fla.   The indictment does not charge the mosques themselves with any wrongdoing, and the individual defendants are charged based on their provision of material support to terrorism, not on their religious beliefs or teachings.      U.S. Attorney Wifredo A. Ferrer stated, Despite being an Imam, or spiritual leader, Hafiz Khan was by no means a man of peace.   Instead, as todays charges show, he acted with others to support terrorists to further acts of murder, kidnapping and maiming.   But for law enforcement intervention, these defendants would have continued to transfer funds to Pakistan to finance the Pakistani Taliban, including its purchase of guns.   Dismantling terrorist networks is a top priority for this office and the Department of Justice.  Today terrorists have lost another funding source to use against innocent people and U.S. interests.   We will not allow this country to be used as a base for funding and recruiting terrorists, said John V. Gillies, Special Agent in Charge of the FBIs Miami Office.   I remind everyone that the Muslim and Arab-American members of our community should never be judged by the illegal activities of a few. None None None   To this end, the defendants, assisted by others in the United States and Pakistan, conspired to provide and provided material support to the Pakistani Taliban by soliciting, collecting and transferring money from the United States to supporters of the Pakistani Taliban, primarily using bank accounts and wire transfer services in the United States and Pakistan.   According to the indictment, these funds were intended to purchase guns for the Pakistani Taliban, to sustain militants and their families, and generally to promote the Pakistani Talibans cause.   In addition, the indictment alleges that defendant Khan supported the Pakistani Taliban through a madrassa, or Islamic school, that he founded and controlled in the Swat region of Pakistan.   Khan has allegedly used the madrassa to provide shelter and other support for the Pakistani Taliban and has sent children from his madrassa to learn to kill Americans in Afghanistan. NoneNone   Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, U.S. Department of State, Broward Sheriffs Office, Miami-Dade Police, City of Miami Police, City of Miramar Police, City of Margate Police, and the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, and the members of the South Florida Joint Terrorism Task Force.   The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys John Shipley and Sivashree Sundaram, from the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of Florida, and Trial Attorney Stephen Ponticiello from the Counterterrorism Section of the Justice Departments National Security Division.   An indictment is only an accusation and a defendant is presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty.