WASHINGTON  An agreement has been reached with the city of Des Moines, Iowa, and the Des Moines Public Library, to improve access to all aspects of civic life for persons with disabilities, the Justice Department today announced. The agreement was reached under Project Civic Access (PCA), the departments wide-ranging initiative to ensure that cities, towns and counties throughout the country comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). Access to public programs and facilities is a civil right, and individuals with disabilities must have the opportunity to participate in local government programs, services and activities on an equal basis with their neighbors, said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General of the Civil Rights Division. In reaching this agreement, the city of Des Moines and the citys public library have made an important commitment to residents and visitors with disabilities. I am very pleased that the city of Des Moines and the Department of Justice have reached an amicable agreement in this matter to ensure access to persons with disabilities, said Nicholas A. Klinefeldt, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Iowa. None Under the agreement announced today, Des Moines will take important steps to improve access for individuals with disabilities, such as:Des Moines, incorporated in 1851, is the capital of and the most populous city in the state of Iowa. It is located just south of the center of the state. More than 20 percent of Des Moines residents have a disability and will benefit from this agreement. Todays agreement was reached under Title II of the ADA, which prohibits discrimination against individuals with disabilities by state and local governments. The agreement requires most actions to be completed within three years. For the required accessibility modifications to sidewalks, pedestrian crossings, transportation stops and curb ramps, the city will work with the disability community to prioritize and complete these modifications within seven years. The department will actively monitor compliance with the agreement, which will remain in effect until the department has confirmed that all required actions have been completed. None