NoneNoneNoneNone   Beginning as early as 2002, JPMC falsely certified that loans it originated and underwrote were qualified for FHA and VA insurance and guarantees. As a consequence of JPMCs misrepresentations, both the FHA and the VA incurred substantial losses when unqualified loans failed and caused the FHA and VA to cover the associated losses.   This settlement with JP Morgan Chase will enable HUD to recover funds lost due to Chases past unacceptable mortgage underwriting practices, said HUDs Acting General Counsel Damon Smith.In addition, Chase must now institute new and tighter controls to prevent abuses of FHAs automated underwriting system. HUD will continue working with the Department of Justice to ensure that lenders are held accountable and are required to institute practices that will benefit both borrowers and the FHA insurance fund.   The agreement reached with JPMC was possible due to the dedication of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New York and the hard work of the talented staff at the Office of Inspector General, said Inspector General of the Department of Housing and Urban Development David A. Montoya. It also demonstrates the combined commitment of the Justice Department and the Office of Inspector General to continuing efforts to enforce FHA mortgage insurance requirements.   The FHAs Single Family Mortgage Insurance Program enables low- and moderate- income borrowers to purchase homes by insuring qualified loans made by participating lenders, such as JPMC, against losses if the loans later default. A participating lender may only submit to the FHA creditworthy loans meeting certain requirements and must maintain a quality control program that can prevent and correct any deficiencies in the lenders underwriting practices. The VAs Loan Guaranty Program provides similar assistance to veterans, service members and qualifying surviving spouses.   I commend the efforts of the United States Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New York to hold lenders accountable for conduct that defrauds the government and deserving veterans who rely on VAs Loan Guaranty Program to purchase their homes, said Acting Inspector General for the Office of Inspector General, Department of Veterans Affairs Richard J. Griffin.   The settlement resolves allegations in a complaint filed by a private whistleblower.None   This settlement was the result of a coordinated effort among the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New York , the departments Civil Division, the Department of Housing and Urban Developments Inspector General and the Department of Veterans Affairs Inspector General.