Revisions Undertaken Jointly by the Two AgenciesNoneNoneThe IP Licensing Guidelines have been invaluable to the departments investigative and enforcement efforts since they were issued in 1995, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Renata Hesse, in charge of the Department of Justices Antitrust Division. They have also guided business planning, and they have been cited by courts, in numerous government briefs, business review letters and policy documents. Although the guidelines are sound, it is time to modernize them to reflect changes in the law since they were issued.Licensing is a cornerstone of a strong system of IP rights because it offers one way that firms can maximize the value of their IP and realize an appropriate return on their investment, said Chairwoman Edith Ramirez of the Federal Trade Commission. These updated guidelines reaffirm our view that U.S. antitrust law leaves licensing decisions to IP owners, licensees, private negotiations and market forces unless there is evidence that the arrangement likely harms competition.In the agencies view, the IP Licensing Guidelines remain soundly grounded, as a matter of antitrust law and economics, in three basic principles:Nevertheless, the agencies have determined that some revisions are in order because the IP Licensing Guidelines should accurately reflect intervening changes in statutory and case law. For example, Congress recently enacted the Defend Trade Secrets Act of 2016, creating for the first time a federal cause of action for misappropriation of trade secrets. Also, the change from a 17-year patent term (from the date of grant) to a 20-year patent term (from the date of filing) effectuated by the Uruguay Round Agreements Act of 1994 was on the verge of taking effect when the IP Licensing Guidelines were issued in 1995. Similarly, copyright terms are longer now than when the IP Licensing Guidelines were issued. The proposed updated IP Licensing Guidelines account for these statutory developments.NoneNoneIn addition, the agencies are updating the analysis of markets affected by licensing arrangements to mirror the approach taken in the 2010 Horizontal Merger Guidelines. The IP Licensing Guidelines approach to innovation markets has been revised to reflect the agencies actual experience with this mode of analysis. The proposed update retains the concept of innovation markets, but refers to them as Research and Development Markets to more accurately reflect how these markets have been defined in enforcement actions.None