  WASHINGTON - Five individuals and a Nashville, Tenn., firearms manufacturer have been indicted by a federal grand jury on charges relating to international firearms and trafficking violations of the Arms Export Control Act (AECA), announced Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Criminal Division; U.S. Attorney Jerry E. Martin for the Middle District of   Tennessee; Special Agent in Charge Glenn N. Anderson of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) Nashville Field Division; and Special Agent in Charge Raymond R. Parmer Jr. for Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) New Orleans Office.     The defendants named in the 21-count indictment unsealed today are Guy Savage, 42, a citizen of the United Kingdom; Sabre Defence Industries LLC (SDI-US), a Nashville-based arms manufacturer owned by Savage; Charles Shearon, 55, of Ashland City, Tenn., and president of SDI-US; Elmer Hill, 64, of Brentwood, Tenn., and chief financial officer of SDI-US; Michael Curlett, 44, of Hermitage, Tenn., and director of sales for SDI-US; and Arnold See Jr., 54, of Antioch, Tenn., who is the international shipping and purchasing manager of SDI-US.   According to the indictment, the defendants were part of a conspiracy to illegally import and export regulated firearms and firearm components and technology to and from the United States.   The indictment alleges that Savage directed the illegal activities from his personal residences in the United Kingdom, as well as from a related company owned by Savage, Sabre Defence Industries LTD (SDI-UK), which is a licensed manufacturer, distributor and importer of firearms and firearms headquartered in the United Kingdom.   None  The investigation and indictment are an excellent example of how the United States Attorneys Office, the Criminal Division, HSI, ATF and international law enforcement agencies are working together to prevent firearms and firearm components from being diverted to locations around the world, said U.S. Attorney Martin. We recognize the role that weapons play in a sometimes violent world and we will vigorously enforce the laws to prevent the illegal importation of firearms and firearm components.None None None    HSI is committed to bringing to justice any person or organization willing to circumvent the laws of the United States, said Special Agent in Charge Parmer of HSI in New Orleans. The illegal import, export, and domestic sale or transfer of firearms, firearm parts, and technical data is controlled for good reason; in the wrong hands, these items could be used to harm America or its allies.   Enforcing U.S. export laws is one of HSIs top priorities and we will continue to work with our law enforcement and industry partners to ensure that those who put our country at risk face appropriate consequences.     The indictment and lengthy law enforcement activities in Tennessee, England and elsewhere send a clear message.   ATF and our law enforcement partners will not stand for those accused of conspiring to violate the federal firearms laws and illegally importing/exporting weapons, components and other items of their choice, said ATF Special Agent in Charge Glenn Anderson. The risk is too great. Crime and the potential for violence around any corner knows no border or boundary.   Today, two countries and countless neighborhoods, both foreign and domestic, are much better off.     Savage was arrested today in the United Kingdom by the London Metropolitan Police Service,based onthe United States request for his extradition.   The remaining defendants will be issued a summons to appear in U.S. District Court in Nashville.     Each count of violating the AECA carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and a $1 million fine. The conspiracy and making false statements charges each carry a maximum penalty of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. The maximum penalty, if convicted of wire and mail fraud, is 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine for each count. Finally, the smuggling goods from the United States charge carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine.     The indictment was the result of an investigation conducted by HSI and ATF, with assistance from the London Metropolitan Police Service, International Assistance Unit.     The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney John K. Webb of the Middle District of Tennessee and Trial Attorney John S. Han of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Racketeering Section.   Additional assistance was provided by the Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs and the National Security Division.    An indictment is merely an accusation and each defendant is presumed innocent until and unless they are proven guilty.   