NoneActing Assistant Attorney General Kenneth A. Blanco of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Dana J. Boente for the Eastern District of Virginia, and Special Agent in Charge Martin W. Culbreth of the FBIs Norfolk Field Office, made the announcement. According to the evidence at trial, Michael Hopson, aka Hop and Big Homie, 39, was a member of a violent street gang called the Black P-Stones, also referred to as the P-Stone Bloods and Cobra Stones, which operated as a criminal enterprise located primarily in the Beechmont, Courthouse Green and Woodview neighborhoods in the Denbigh area of Newport News. The evidence at trial established that the Black P-Stones engaged in various criminal activities including murders, robberies, illegal drug trafficking and obstruction of justice.  None None On Nov. 6, 2007, a P-Stone member, acting on Hopsons orders, lured E.S., a 17-year-old P-Stone member, to a location in Newport News, for the purpose of killing him. Hopson had previously given him the green light for the killing of E.S. due to E.S. being friends with members of Thug Relations. Once E.S. arrived at the location, E.S was shot and killed. As a result of the murder, Hopson rewarded the P-Stone member with a promotion.  On Dec. 10, 2008 Hopson authorized the murder of J.W., a Crip who had been disrespectful to members of the P-Stones. Acting on those orders, two P-Stone members went to the home of J.W. and fired multiple rounds into the home. J.W.s father, who was sitting in the living room when the shooting occurred, was hit with debris from the bullet shrapnel and suffered injury to his eye. On March 9, 2009, Hopson ordered the murder of two members of 10-1 Mafia Crips, a rival of the P-Stones. Hopson authorized the murder after the two were responsible for the beating of a P-Stone member. Acting on Hopsons orders, two P-Stone members shot multiple times into the home of the two 10-1 Mafia Crips.  On April 17, 2009, Hopson ordered two P-Stones to fire multiple rounds into a home he knew to be occupied because the individuals inside the home were disrespectful to him. Hopson ordered the murder of A.J., a Thug Relations member who was responsible for the murder of a P-Stone member. On June 12, 2009, A P-Stone member acting on Hopsons orders shot at A.J.  The investigation of this case was led by the FBIs Safe Streets Peninsula Task Force, with the assistance of the Newport News Police Department and the James City County Police Department. Trial Attorney Marianne Shelvey of the Organized Crime and Gang Section in the Justice Departments Criminal Division and Assistant U.S. Attorney Eric M. Hurt of the Eastern District of Virginia prosecuted the case.