The ringleader of a stolen identity tax refund fraud scheme and former nightclub owner was sentenced yesterday in the U.S. District Court in Montgomery, Alabama, for stolen identity refund fraud related crimes, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Caroline D. Ciraolo of the Justice Departments Tax Division and U.S. Attorney George L. Beck Jr. of the Middle District of Alabama.NoneAs evidenced by todays sentence, individuals like Mr. Tellis, who commit stolen identity theft crimes and in doing so, victimize innocent American taxpayers and brazenly steal from the U.S. Treasury, face lengthy incarceration and substantial financial penalties, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Ciraolo. The Tax Division and its law enforcement partners stand ready to vigorously pursue and prosecute these offenders to the fullest extent of the law.According to evidence presented at trial, Tellis, the former owner of Club Iconz Bar and Grill in Montgomery, masterminded a more than $700,000 stolen identity tax refund scheme. Tellis co-conspirator, Nakia Jackson, obtained approximately 700 names, dates of birth and social security numbers from an employee of the Alabama Medicaid State Agency. Jackson provided some of the stolen names to Tellis, who in turn used them to file false income tax returns. In exchange, Tellis taught Jackson how to file false tax returns.Tellis concealed the origin of the tax refund proceeds by recruiting friends and relatives, including Bobby Joe Means, Delancey Tolliver, Glen Powell Jr. and Tracey Montgomery, to open up bank accounts for the purpose of receiving the tax refunds. When the refunds were deposited into their bank accounts, Tellis directed them to withdraw the money and provide it to him. On the false tax returns submitted to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), Tellis directed more than $300,000 in refunds to be deposited in those accounts. Tellis also recruited a bank teller, Laquanta Clayton, who used her position to open up bank accounts in the name of fictitious individuals and in the name of her daughters father. On the false tax returns submitted to the IRS, Tellis directed approximately $200,000 in refunds to be deposited into the accounts that Clayton controlled. Clayton withdrew the refund proceeds in cash and provided the majority of the money to Tellis. Tellis also took steps to conceal his involvement in the filing of false tax returns, including filing numerous tax returns by accessing another persons residential wireless router that was not password protected so that it appeared as though the owner of the residence had filed the returns.NoneActing Assistant Attorney General Ciraolo and U.S. Attorney Beck commended the special agents of IRS-Criminal Investigation, who investigated the case, and Trial Attorneys Gregory P. Bailey, Charles M. Edgar Jr. and Michael C. Boteler of the Tax Division and Assistant U.S. Attorney Todd Brown of the Middle District of Alabama, who prosecuted the case.None