None   NCED was a participant in the AbilityOne Program, which creates employment opportunities for people who are blind or have other significant disabilities in the manufacture and delivery of products and services to the federal government. The program uses the purchasing power of the federal government to buy approved products and services from participating, community-based nonprofit agencies nationwide.   These community-based nonprofit agencies, like NCED, must ensure that 75 percent of all annual direct labor hours on certain government contracts are performed by employees who are blind or severely disabled.  The program is managed by the Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled, which is a federal agency.   The United States alleges that, between 2000 and 2006, NCED employed a large number of non-disabled employees to work on contracts for the manufacture of archival boxes, apparel and other items, and did not appropriately account for their hours as part of the overall ratios it certified and submitted to the committee.   The AbilityOne program is an important source of employment for people who are blind or have other significant disabilities, said Stuart Delery, Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Division of the Department of Justice.   False certifications undermine that program and will not be tolerated.   This settlement is particularly important because it protects the integrity of a program that ensures disabled individuals are able to reach their maximum employment potential, said U.S. Attorney Neil H. MacBride for the Eastern District of Virginia.   AbilityOne Program integrity is paramount.   We will continue to monitor and ensure that the people the AbilityOne Program was designed to employ are, in fact, the ones benefitting from this program.   We appreciate the Department of Justices persistence and professionalism in resolving this matter, said Tina Ballard, Executive Director and CEO, Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled. NoneNoneNone