Since the White House Summit on Countering Violent Extremism (CVE) last February, the U.S. government has focused on strengthening our effort to prevent extremists from radicalizing and mobilizing recruits, especially here at home. Advancing this effort means working as effectively as possible across the U.S. government, which is why we are forming the CVE Task Force.The federal governments top priority is protecting the American people from all forms of violent extremism, said Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch. By bringing together agencies from across the Executive Branch, this innovative task force will allow us to more efficiently and effectively support local efforts to counter violent extremism. The Department of Justice looks forward to joining the Department of Homeland Security in leading this new initiative, which represents an important step in our ongoing work to keep our communities safe and our country strong.Countering violent extremism has become a homeland security imperative, and it is a mission to which I am personally committed, said Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson. At the Department of Homeland Security, our Office of Community Partnerships  which I established last year to take the Departments CVE efforts to the next level  has been working to build relationships and promote trust with communities across the country, and to find innovative ways to support those who seek to discourage violent extremism and undercut terrorist narratives. The interagency CVE Task Force that we are announcing today, and which will be hosted by the Department of Homeland Security, will bring together the best resources and personnel from across the executive branch to ensure that we face the challenge of violent extremism in a unified and coordinated way.NoneThe review team identified four key needs:The CVE Task Force will be a permanent interagency task force hosted by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) with overall leadership provided by DHS and the Department of Justice, with additional staffing provided by representatives from the FBI, National Counterterrorism Center and other supporting departments and agencies. The task force will be administratively housed at DHS. The CVE Task Force will address the gaps identified in the review by (1) synchronizing and integrating whole-of-government CVE programs and activities; (2) leveraging new CVE efforts, for example those of the DHS Office for Community Partnerships; (3) conducting ongoing strategic planning; and (4) assessing and evaluating CVE programs and activities.The CVE Task Force will organize federal efforts into several areas, including: