  WASHINGTON  Teresa Kelly, a former operations supervisor in Colonial Banks Mortgage Warehouse Lending Division (MWLD), pleaded guilty today to conspiring to commit bank, wire and securities fraud for her role in a fraud scheme that contributed to the failures of Colonial Bank and Taylor, Bean & Whitaker (TBW).     The guilty plea was announced today by Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Criminal Division; U.S. Attorney Neil H. MacBride for the Eastern District of Virginia; Special Inspector General Neil Barofsky for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (SIGTARP); Assistant Director in Charge James W. McJunkin of the FBIs Washington Field Office; Michael P. Stephens, Inspector General of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD OIG); Jon T. Rymer, Inspector General of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC OIG); Steve A. Linick, Inspector General of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA OIG); and Victor F. O. Song, Chief of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Criminal Investigation. NoneNoneNone None   According to court documents, Kelly and her conspirators also caused TBW to engage in sales to Colonial Bank of fictitious trades that had no collateral backing them and had no value.   To obtain fraudulent funding through these trades, TBW co-conspirators would contact Kelly or another co-conspirator at Colonial Bank when the mortgage company needed an advance from the bank.   Conspirators at TBW would wire a request that included false documentation purporting to represent the sale of the trades to Colonial Bank to support the release of the funds.   Kelly and others caused the false information to be entered into Colonial Banks books and records, giving the appearance that Colonial Bank owned a 99 percent interest in legitimate securities, when in fact the securities had no value and could not be sold.   Kelly admitted today that she and her co-conspirators took steps to hide the fraud scheme from Colonial Banks and Colonial BancGroups senior management, auditors and regulators, and Colonial BancGroups shareholders, including by providing materially false information that significantly overstated assets held in the MWLD portfolio. Kelly knew that these actions caused materially false financial data to be reported to Colonial BancGroup and incorporated in its publicly filed statements.   In August 2009, the Alabama State Banking Department, Colonial Banks regulator, seized the bank and appointed the FDIC as receiver.   Colonial BancGroup also filed for bankruptcy in August 2009.   Raymond Bowman, the former president of TBW; Desiree Brown, the former treasurer of TBW;   and Catherine Kissick, a former senior vice president of Colonial Bank and head of its Mortgage Warehouse Lending Division, previously pleaded guilty for their roles in the fraud scheme. NoneNoneNone