None   Adrian Scott-Jones, of Morriston, Fla., a former broker for Tradition N.A., was sentenced by District Court Judge Harold Baer Jr. for his role in the conspiracies.    Scott-Jones was sentenced to serve 18 months in prison and to pay a $12,500 criminal fine.NoneNone   According to court documents, in each conspiracy, Scott-Jones gave co-conspirators information about the prices, price levels or conditions in competitors' bids, a practice known as a last look, which is explicitly prohibited by U.S. Treasury regulations.   Scott-Jones also solicited and received intentionally losing bids for certain investment agreements and other municipal finance contracts.   As a result of Scott-Jones role in corrupting the bidding process for investment agreements, he and his co-conspirators deprived the municipalities of competitive interest rates for the investment of tax-exempt bond proceeds used by municipalities for various public works projects, such as water pollution abatement projects and low-cost housing.   The department said that the conspiracies cost municipalities around the country millions of dollars.   Today's sentencing reaffirms the ongoing success of our efforts to weed out corruption in the municipal bond market, said George Venizelos, Acting Director in Charge of the FBI in New York.   The FBI will continue to work closely with our partners from the Antitrust Division to protect the integrity of the competitive bidding process in public finance.  Individuals who manipulate the competitive bidding system to benefit themselves will be held accountable for their criminal activity, said Richard Weber, Chief, Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI).   Quite simply, Mr. Scott-Jones profited at the expense of the towns and cities that needed the money for important public works projects.   IRS Criminal Investigation is committed to working with our law enforcement partners to uncover this kind of corruption and secure justice for American taxpayers.NoneNoneNoneNone