NoneCarnival Corp. is one of the largest cruise companies in the world, owning and operating several cruise lines. Todays settlement agreement addresses accessibility on 62 ships among the Carnival Cruise Line, Holland America Line and Princess Cruises brands and implements accessibility standards and policies to provide greater access on cruises that embark and disembark from U.S. waters or those of its territories.The ADA guarantees people with disabilities equal access to public accommodations, said head of the Civil Rights Division, Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta. Cruise ships are floating cities and provide a wide range of facilities and activities subject to the requirements of the ADA, such as lodging, dining, entertainment, recreation, and medical facilities. People with disabilities who travel must be able to count on getting the accessible cabin they reserve, and the cruise lines must provide equal access to the choice of amenities and attractions that passengers expect from a major cruise company like Carnival Corporation.This landmark ADA agreement will enable individuals with disabilities the opportunity to equally enjoy a full range of cabins and services that previously were unavailable while vacationing on cruise ships, said U.S. Attorney Wifredo A. Ferrer of the Southern District of Florida.The settlement agreement is the result of an investigation of complaints by the Justice Department. Carnival officials cooperated with the department throughout the process. Among the complaints were allegations that the company failed to: properly provide and reserve accessible cabins for individuals with mobility disabilities; reasonably modify policies, practices and procedures to accommodate individuals with disabilities; afford individuals with disabilities the same opportunities to participate in programs and services, including embarkation and disembarkation; and provide effective communication during muster and emergency drills.Under the agreement:Todays settlement represents the first time the Department of Justice has required a cruise company to provide a minimum number of accessible cabins, to conduct a survey of its ships and to develop a remediation plan to comply with the ADA. It is also the first time that an agreement under the ADA has specifically identified three types of accessible cabins on cruise ships  fully accessible cabins, fully accessible cabins-single side approach and ambulatory accessible cabins  that will be available to individuals with disabilities.None