  WASHINGTON  Hosam Maher Husein Smadi was sentenced today by U.S. District Court Judge Barbara M. G. Lynn to 24 years in prison for his attempted bombing of a downtown Dallas skyscraper in September 2009, announced David Kris, Assistant Attorney General for the National Security Division; U.S. Attorney James T. Jacks of the Northern District of Texas; and Robert E. Casey Jr., Special Agent in Charge of the FBIs Dallas Field Division. Smadi, 20, pleaded guilty on May 26, 2010, to one count of attempted use of a weapon of mass destruction.  "The courts sentence of Mr. Smadi sends a clear message that there is a serious price to be paid by those who may be willingtocarry out acts of violence in this country to further the terrorist cause. I applaud the many agents, analysts and prosecutors responsible for this successful investigation and prosecution," said Assistant Attorney General Kris.  "I commend the FBI, the lawyers and support staff in the U.S. Attorneys Office, and the Counterterrorism Section at the Department of Justice for their excellent work in investigating and prosecuting this case. The security of the American people is the highest priority of the Department of Justice. Through the professionalism and hard work of many individuals, they were able to locate, identify and neutralize the threat presented by this individual. This case is an illustration of the diligence and hard work that is performed every day by men and women dedicated to the safety and security of this country," said U.S. Attorney Jacks.  "Todays sentencing reflects our commitment to protect the community through the FBIs counterterrorism strategy to detect, penetrate and disrupt acts of terrorism in the United States and to identify and fully investigate those individuals who choose to disregard the laws of this country and threaten the countrys security to advance a violent extremist ideology. Much effort and many resources, from not only the FBI but other law enforcement agencies, were expended in investigating, tracking and ultimately arresting Hosam Maher Husein Smadi while at all times ensuring the publics safety," said Special Agent In Charge Robert E. Casey Jr.  According to documents filed, on Sept. 24, 2009, Smadi knowingly took possession of a truck that contained a weapon of mass destruction, specifically a destructive device or bomb. The truck with the bomb inside was a vehicle borne improvised explosive device. Smadi believed that this was an active weapon of mass destruction, and while it was inert when Smadi took possession of it, it was a readily-convertible weapon of mass destruction.  Also according to documents filed, Smadi knowingly drove the truck containing the bomb to Fountain Place, a 60-story public office building located at 1445 Ross Avenue in Dallas, and parked it in the public parking garage under the building. After parking the truck, Smadi activated a timer connected to the device, locked the truck and walked away. Smadi walked out of the parking garage, crossed the street and got into a car with an undercover law enforcement agent. They drove a safe distance away and prepared to watch the explosion. Smadi, who believed the bomb would explode and cause extensive damage, used a cell phone to remotely activate the device.  The case was investigated by the FBI in conjunction with members of the FBI-sponsored North Texas Joint Terrorism Task Force. Assistant U.S. Attorney Dayle Elieson and Deputy Criminal Chief Assistant U.S. Attorney Jerri Sims prosecuted the case. 