A partial owner of several Florida-based energy companies pleaded guilty today to foreign bribery charges for his role in a scheme to corruptly secure contracts from Venezuelas state-owned and state-controlled energy company, Petroleos de Venezuela S.A. (PDVSA). Acting Assistant Attorney General Kenneth A. Blanco of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, Acting U.S. Attorney Abe Martinez of the Southern District of Texas and Special Agent in Charge Mark Dawson of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations (ICE-HSI) Houston office made the announcement. Fernando Ardila Rueda (Ardila), 49, of Miami, pleaded guilty in federal court in Houston, to one count of conspiracy to violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and one count of violating the FCPA. U.S. District Judge Gray H. Miller of the Southern District of Texas accepted the guilty plea. Sentencing is scheduled for Feb. 8, 2018.  According to admissions made in connection with his plea, Ardila conspired with U.S.-based businessmen Abraham Jose Shiera Bastidas (Shiera) and Roberto Enrique Rincon Fernandez (Rincon) to pay bribes and other things of value to PDVSA purchasing analysts. The bribes were paid to ensure that Shieras and Rincons companies were placed on PDVSA bidding panels and in order to obtain or retain business with PDVSA. From 2008 through 2014, while he was sales director, manager and partial owner of several of Shieras companies, Ardila provided entertainment and offered bribes to PDVSA officials based on a percentage of the value of contracts the officials helped to award to Shieras companies.  None ICE-HSI is conducting the ongoing investigation with assistance from IRS-Criminal Investigation. Trial Attorneys Aisling OShea and Jeremy R. Sanders of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section, and Assistant U.S. Attorneys (AUSA) John Pearson and Robert S. Johnson of the Southern District of Texas are prosecuting the case. AUSA Kristine Rollinson of the Southern District of Texas is handling the forfeiture aspects of the case.  The Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs and the Swiss Federal Office of Justice also provided assistance.  None