  The Justice Department announced  today that Community Health Systems Inc. (CHS), the nations largest operator of  acute care hospitals, has agreed to pay $98.15 million to resolve multiple  lawsuits alleging that the company knowingly billed government health care  programs for inpatient services that should have been billed as outpatient or  observation services.  The settlement also resolves allegations that one of the  companys affiliated hospitals, Laredo Medical Center (LMC), improperly billed  the Medicare program for certain inpatient procedures and for services rendered  to patients referred in violation of the Physician Self-Referral Law, commonly  known as the Stark Law.  CHS is based in Franklin, Tennessee, and has 206  affiliated hospitals in 29 states.   Charging the government for  higher cost inpatient services that patients do not need wastes the countrys  health care resources, said Assistant Attorney General Stuart F. Delery for the  Justice Departments Civil Division.  In addition, providing physicians with  financial incentives to refer patients compromises medical judgment and risks  depriving patients of the most appropriate health care available.  This  department will continue its work to stop this type of abuse of the nations  health care resources and to ensure patients receive the most appropriate  care.   The United States alleged that  from 2005 through 2010, CHS engaged in a deliberate corporate-driven scheme to  increase inpatient admissions of Medicare, Medicaid and the Department of  Defenses (DOD) TRICARE program beneficiaries over the age of 65 who originally  presented to the emergency departments at 119 CHS hospitals.  The government  further alleged that the inpatient admission of these beneficiaries was not  medically necessary, and that the care needed by, and provided to, these  beneficiaries should have been provided in a less costly outpatient or  observation setting.  CHS agreed to pay $89.15 million to resolve these  allegations.  The settlement does not include hospitals that CHS acquired from  Health Management Associates (HMA) in January 2014.   In addition, the government  alleged that from 2005 through 2010, one of CHSs affiliated hospitals, LMC in  Laredo, Texas, presented false claims to the Medicare program for certain  cardiac and hemodialysis procedures performed on a higher cost inpatient basis  that should have been performed on a lower cost outpatient basis.  The  government also alleged that from 2007 through 2012, LMC improperly billed  Medicare for services referred to LMC by a physician who was offered a medical  directorship at LMC, in violation of the Stark Law.  The Stark Law prohibits a  hospital from submitting claims for patient referrals made by a physician with  whom the hospital has an improper financial relationship, and is intended to  ensure that a physicians medical judgment is not compromised by improper  financial incentives, and is instead based on the best interests of the  patient.  CHS agreed to pay $9 million to resolve the allegations involving  LMC.   This is the largest False Claims  Act settlement in this district and it reaffirms this offices commitment to  investigate and pursue health care fraud that compromises the integrity of our  health care system, said U.S. Attorney David Rivera for the Middle District of  Tennessee.  This office is committed to ensuring that all companies billing  government healthcare programs are responsible corporate citizens and that  hospital providers do not engage in schemes to increase medically unnecessary  in-patient admissions of government healthcare program beneficiaries in order to  increase profits.   This settlement demonstrates our  commitment to working with our law enforcement partners and with the Department  of Justice to protect the integrity of our nations health care system, said  U.S. Attorney Kenneth Magidson of the Southern District of Texas.  Put simply,  these types of fraudulent practices will not be tolerated and the investigation  and resolution of such claims will continue to be a high priority of this  office.   Health care providers should  make treatment decisions based on patients medical needs, not profit margins,  said U.S. Attorney Anne M. Tompkins for the Western District of North Carolina.   We will not allow this type of misconduct to compromise the integrity of our  health care system.   As part of todays agreement, CHS  entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement with the U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services - Office of Inspector General (HHS-OIG), requiring the  company to engage in significant compliance efforts over the next five years.   Under the agreement, CHS is required to retain independent review organizations  to review the accuracy of the companys claims for inpatient services furnished  to federal health care program beneficiaries.   In an effort to ensure the  companys fraudulent past is not its future, CHS agreed to a rigorous multi-year  Corporate Integrity Agreement requiring that the company commit to compliance  with the law, said Inspector General Daniel R. Levinson, of the U.S. Department  of Health and Human Services.  The dedicated work of OIGs investigators,  auditors, and attorneys, in concert with our law enforcement partners, has again  resulted in the recovery of taxpayer dollars and better protection against fraud  in the future. None   This settlement illustrates the  governments emphasis on combating health care fraud and marks another  achievement for the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team  (HEAT) initiative, which was announced in May 2009 by Attorney General Eric  Holder and the Secretary of Health and Human Services.  The partnership between  the two departments has focused efforts to reduce and prevent Medicare and  Medicaid financial fraud through enhanced cooperation.  One of the most powerful  tools in this effort is the False Claims Act.  Since January 2009, the Justice  Department has recovered a total of more than $20.2 billion through False Claims  Act cases, with more than $14 billion of that amount recovered in cases  involving fraud against federal health care programs.   This settlement was the result of  a coordinated effort by the U.S. Attorneys Offices for the Middle District of  Tennessee, Southern District of Texas, Northern and Southern Districts of  Illinois, Northern District of Indiana and Western District of North Carolina;  the Civil Divisions Commercial Litigation Branch; HHS-OIG; DODs Defense Health  Agency - Program Integrity Office and the FBI. None