A Cincinnati resident, Christopher Hisle, 45, pleaded guilty today to one count of commercial sex trafficking by force, fraud or coercion, two counts of enticing a person to travel in interstate commerce for the purpose of prostitution and one count of interstate transportation for the purpose of prostitution. Police arrested Hisle on April 8, 2014, in Louisville, Kentucky, after discovering Hisle drove a young woman from Cincinnati to Louisville to engage in prostitution at a Red Roof Inn. A subsequent FBI investigation revealed Hisles involvement in forcing and compelling multiple young women to engage in commercial sex.According to the plea agreement, Hisle physically assaulted several of the victims, including striking one of the victims in the face when she threatened to run away. Hisle locked the victims in his house in Cincinnati by boarding and locking all the doors and windows, including locking the women in the house when he left. On one occasion, a young woman escaped, but Hisle found her and brought her back.This defendant preyed on vulnerable young victims and cruelly exploited them for his profit, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta for the Civil Rights Division. Our Constitution guarantees freedom from involuntary servitude and slavery to all members of our society, and we will continue to enforce our human trafficking laws to restore the rights, freedom and dignity to victims of modern-day slavery.My office is committed to seeking justice for victims of human trafficking, said U.S. Attorney David J. Hale for the Western District of Kentucky. Tragically, these crimes so often pass without detection because victims live in fear from physical abuse, threats and other forms of coercion. My office has worked to improve detection and prosecution by sponsoring training for our federal and local law enforcement partners.Sex Trafficking is a crime that victimizes people in a highly personal manner, said Special Agent in Charge Howard S. Marshall of the FBIs Louisville Office. Victims often feel as if they have no options and no hope. Detecting sex trafficking is essential to stopping it. The FBI works with state and local partners to uncover this heinous crime. If you believe you are a victim of sex trafficking or may have information about a particular trafficking situation, please contact the FBI.Hisle faces a mandatory minimum sentence of 15 years in prison. Senior District Court Judge John G. Heyburn II set sentencing for Feb. 9, 2015. As part of his plea agreement, Hisle will pay restitution to 12 women identified as victims of Hisles human trafficking crimes.This case was investigated by the FBI and is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Amanda E. Gregory of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Western District of Kentucky and Trial Attorney William Nolan of the Civil Rights Divisions Human Trafficking Prosecution Unit.