  WASHINGTON  A Detroit-area adult day care center owner  pleaded guilty today for her role in a $10 million psychotherapy fraud scheme,  announced the Departments of Justice and Health and Human Services (HHS) and  the FBI.  Checarol Robinson, 41, pleaded guilty today before U.S.  District Judge Nancy D. Edmunds in the Eastern District of Michigan in Detroit,  to an indictment charging her with one count of conspiracy to commit health  care fraud and three counts of health care fraud. At her sentencing, scheduled  for Dec. 4, 2012, Robinson faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a  $250,000 fine for each count.  According to the indictment, Robinson owned group homes  inhabited by Medicare beneficiaries. In  return for payments, Robinson allegedly provided these Medicare beneficiaries  information to a fraudulent psychotherapy company owned by a co-conspiratorCaldwell  Thompson Manor Inc.to be used to bill Medicare for psychotherapy services that  were not provided and/or not medically necessary.  According to the indictment, Robinson later owned and  operated P&C Adult Day Center (P&C), which was incorporated in May  2010. P&C purported to provide  psychotherapy services. Robinson allegedly falsely billed Medicare for  individual and group therapy services that were not provided by P&C and/or  not medically necessary using the Medicare beneficiaries from her group  homes. Robinsons alleged co-conspirator  from the scheme at Caldwell Thompson, who was also a licensed social worker,  would sign patient charts for psychotherapy services purportedly performed at  P&C that were medically unnecessary and never performed.  Caldwell Thompson and P&C allegedly submitted more  than $10 million of false claims to Medicare in the course of the conspiracy.  The guilty plea was announced by Assistant Attorney  General Lanny A. Breuer of the Justice Departments Criminal Division; U.S.  Attorney for the Eastern District of Michigan Barbara L. McQuade; Acting  Special Agent in Charge of the FBIs Detroit Field Office Edward J. Hanko; and  Special Agent in Charge Lamont Pugh III of the HHS Office of Inspector  Generals (HHS-OIG), Chicago Regional Office.  The case is being prosecuted by Assistant Chief Gejaa T.  Gobena and Trial Attorney Catherine K. Dick of the Criminal Divisions Fraud  Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Michigan Philip  A. Ross. The case was investigated by the FBI and HHS-OIG, and was brought as  part of the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, supervised by the Criminal Divisions  Fraud Section and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of  Michigan.  Since its inception in March 2007, the Medicare Fraud  Strike Force, now operating in nine cities across the country, has charged more  than 1,330 defendants who have collectively billed the Medicare program for  more than $4 billion. In addition, HHSs  Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, working in conjunction with  HHS-OIG, is taking steps to increase accountability and decrease the presence  of fraudulent providers.None