U.S. District Court Judge Lesley Wells entered a consent decree of permanent injunction against Ben Venue Laboratories Inc., a Bedford, Ohio-based drug manufacturer, the Justice Department announced today. The permanent injunction was also entered against George P. Doyle, president and chief executive officer, Kimberly A. Kellermann, vice president of operations, and Douglas A. Rich, vice president of quality operations, for Ben Venue. The department, at the request of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), asked the court to enter the consent decree.Ben Venue manufactures numerous generic sterile injectable drug products, including cancer medications. As set forth in the complaint filed by the United States on January 22, FDA conducted an inspection of defendants facility from Nov. 7 to Dec. 2, 2011, and documented 10 deviations from current good manufacturing practices. According to the complaint, the FDA found, among other things, that the company failed to create and follow appropriate procedures to prevent contamination of drugs which were purported to be sterile. The FDA also found that the company failed to properly clean and maintain its equipment to ensure the safety and quality of the drugs it manufactured. In addition, the FDA determined that the company failed to conduct adequate investigations of drugs that did not meet their specifications. Compliance with current good manufacturing practices requirements assures that drugs meet the safety requirements of the law and have the identity and strength and meet the quality and purity characteristics that they purport to or are represented to possess. FDA regulations, which establish minimum current good manufacturing practices applicable to human drugs, require manufacturers to control all aspects of the processes and procedures by which drugs are manufactured in order to prevent the production of unsafe and ineffective products. According to the complaint, t he deviations observed by FDA during the November - December 2011 inspection were similar to deviations observed by FDA during its many previous inspections of Ben Venues facility. During FDAs May 2011 inspection, FDA documented 48 deviations from current good manufacturing practices including an inadequate quality control unit, inadequate and untimely investigations, inadequately designed aseptic processing areas, poor employee aseptic practices, failure to prevent microbial contamination of drug products purporting to be sterile and failure to determine the root cause for microbial contaminants. As described in the complaint, FDAs long inspection and regulatory history of Ben Venue, including 35 inspections since 1997, and approximately 40 recalls since February 2002 associated with drugs manufactured at the Ben Venue facility (including 10 recalls in 2011 and 10 recalls in 2012), reflects a continuing pattern of significant deviations from current good manufacturing practices with its drugs. Some recalls involved drugs contaminated with glass and other particulates. Additional recalls were based on the companys inability to assure the drugs sterility. Of the roughly 40 recalls, nine were classified by FDA as Class I, meaning that FDA determined that there was a reasonable probability that the use of . . . a violative product will cause serious adverse health consequences or death. The consent decree entered resolves the complaint by requiring Ben Venue to take a wide range of actions to correct its violations and ensure that they do not happen again. The injunction establishes a series of steps which must occur before Ben Venue can fully resume operations, including the retention of an expert to inspect the companys facility, the development and then implementation of a remediation plan, and an inspection by FDA to confirm that the companys manufacturing processes are fully compliant with the law. This consent decree restricts Ben Venue from manufacturing and distributing certain drugs until the company fully complies with the law, said Stuart F. Delery, Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Civil Division. As this case demonstrates, the Department of Justice and FDA will work together to protect the health and safety of Americans by making sure that those who produce and distribute prescription drugs follow the law. This resolution comes following nearly three dozen inspections which revealed inadequate quality control, including contaminated drugs, and led to approximately 40 recalls on products from this facility alone, said Steven M. Dettelbach, U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Ohio. The Justice Department and the Food and Drug Administration will continue to place its highest priority on protecting consumers. Under the decree, Ben Venue may continue to manufacture and distribute a subset of their drugs (listed on Attachment A to the decree), which FDA has determined are currently in shortage (domestically or abroad) or are vulnerable to shortage. However, prior to distribution of each batch of these drugs, the companys expert must conduct a batch-by-batch review and certify that no deviations occurred during the manufacture of the drug that would adversely affect the safety or quality of the batch. Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Delery thanked the FDA for referring this matter to the Department of Justice. Jeffrey Steger, Assistant Director of the Consumer Protection Branch of the Justice Department and Michele Svonkin, Counsel at FDAs Office of the Chief Counsel, brought this case on behalf of the United States.