  The Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of Indiana announced today the return of two indictments against six individuals and three companies for offenses involving federal renewable fuel programs, allegedly creating losses to victims totaling more than $100 million. The 88 counts included in the three charging documents include allegations of conspiracy, wire fraud, false tax claims, false statements under the Clean Air Act, obstruction of justice, money laundering and securities fraud.  Congress enacted incentives for the production of biofuels to make the United States stronger and more energy independent, said Robert G. Dreher, Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division. Fraud by parties claiming such incentives threatens these important public policies. The Justice Department will vigorously prosecute those seeking to line their pockets using scams like those alleged in this indictment.  This morning, federal agents brought into custody individuals who allegedly operated the largest tax and securities fraud scheme in Indiana history, said U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Indiana Joseph H. Hogsett. This case represents a collaborative effort on the part of law enforcement to hold fully accountable those who seek personal profit at the taxpayers expense.  The Renewable Fuel Standard Program was designed to achieve greenhouse gas emission reductions, promote energy independence and expand our nations renewable fuels sector, said Cynthia Giles, Assistant Administrator for Enforcement and Compliance Assurance, Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Todays action supports these goals by protecting the integrity of the biofuel market. Those that cheat the system are breaking the law, and undermine our commitment to protect public health and the environment.  We are proud to work with our federal partners to identify and investigate groups that manipulate and utilize federal government programs to line their pockets by fraud, said Robert A. Jones, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI Indianapolis Division. In doing so, they deceive their customers, their shareholders, and the American public. The FBI will continue the fight against this dishonest and fraudulent behavior which harms the American people and the American economy.NoneNone