None We rely on doctors to provide honest, independent recommendations regarding clinical testing, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Chad A. Readler of the Justice Departments Civil Division. Companies that pay kickbacks to referring doctors corrupt those doctors independence, leaving patients vulnerable to expensive and unnecessary testing.  Physicians refer their patients to independent laboratories like Berkeley to conduct tests on blood samples. According to the governments complaint, Berkeley paid kickbacks to referring physicians disguised as process and handling fees. The complaint also alleged that Berkeley paid kickbacks to patients by routinely waiving copayments owed by certain patients who were legally required to pay for part of their tests. Allegedly, Berkeley paid the kickbacks to induce both the physicians and patients who received them to choose Berkeley over other laboratories. The governments complaint further alleged that these illegal practices resulted in medically unnecessary cardiovascular tests being charged to federal healthcare programs.  The Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce referrals of items or services covered by federally funded programs. The Anti-Kickback Statute is intended to ensure that a physicians medical judgment is not compromised by improper financial incentives and is instead based on the best interests of the patient. The Anti-Kickback Statute also prohibits routinely waiving patient copayments to ensure that patients are appropriately incentivized to refuse unnecessary tests.  None This settlement is part of the governments ongoing efforts to address conduct that allows medical decisions to be influenced by money rather than the best interests of patients, said U.S. Attorney Channing D. Phillips of the District of Columbia. Our office is pleased to defend the integrity of our healthcare system and to demand the return of ill-gotten gains. We will not allow laboratories to provide financial incentives to induce physicians to steer patients their way, said Special Agent in Charge Derrick L. Jackson of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General (HHS-OIG) in Atlanta. The Office of Inspector General will continue to work aggressively to eliminate this type of behavior which ultimately drives up healthcare costs and eliminates fair competition. None None None None The cases is captioned United States ex rel. Mayes v. Berkeley HeartLab Inc., et al., Case No. 9:11-CV-01593-RMG (D.S.C.). The claims settled by these agreements and asserted against these companies and individuals are allegations only, and there has been no determination of liability.