  WASHINGTON  In anticipation of the upcoming election, the department today provided information about its efforts, through the Civil Rights and Criminal Divisions, to ensure that all qualified voters have the opportunity to cast their ballots and have their votes counted, without incidence of discrimination, intimidation or fraud.   None   The Civil Rights Division is responsible for ensuring compliance with the civil provisions of federal laws that protect the right to vote, and with criminal law prohibiting discriminatory interference with that right.   The Civil Rights Divisions Voting Section enforces civil provisions of federal laws that protect the right to vote including: the Voting Rights Act; the National Voter Registration Act; the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act; and the Help America Vote Act. Among other things, these laws prohibit discrimination based on race or membership in a minority language group; prohibit intimidation of voters; provide that voters who need assistance in voting because of disability or illiteracy can obtain assistance from a person of their choice; require minority language election materials and assistance in certain jurisdictions; provide for accessible election machines for voters with disabilities; require provisional ballots for voters   who assert they are eligible but whose names do not appear on poll books; provide for absentee ballots for service members and U.S. citizens living abroad; and require states to ensure that citizens can register at driver license offices, public assistance offices and other state agencies; and include requirements regarding maintaining voter registration lists.      The Civil Rights Divisions Criminal Section enforces federal criminal statutes that prohibit voter intimidation and suppression based on race, color, national origin or religion.   As it has in the past, on Election Day, Nov. 2, 2010, the Civil Rights Division will implement a comprehensive program to help ensure ballot access that will include the following:   The Civil Rights Division will announce later this week which states will have federal personnel as election monitors and observers at polling places.   Civil Rights Division attorneys in both the Voting and Criminal Sections in Washington, D.C., will be ready to receive election-related complaints of potential violations relating to any of the statutes the Civil Rights Division enforces.   Attorneys in the division will take appropriate action and will consult and coordinate with local U.S. Attorneys Offices and with other entities within the Department of Justice concerning these complaints on and after Election Day, as appropriate.    None None   The Departments Criminal Division oversees the enforcement of federal laws that criminalize voter fraud and protect the integrity of the federal election process.   The Criminal Divisions Public Integrity Section and the Departments 94 U.S. Attorneys Offices are responsible for enforcing the federal criminal laws that prohibit various forms of election fraud, such as vote buying, multiple voting, submission of fraudulent ballots or registrations, destruction of ballots or registrations, voter intimidation, alteration of votes and malfeasance by election officials, as well as federal civil law prohibiting voter intimidation that does not involve discrimination or intimidation on grounds of race or color.      The departments Ballot Access and Voting IntegrityInitiative requires that each of the departments U.S. Attorneys Offices coordinatewith state law enforcement and election officials before the federal general elections regarding the handling of election-related matters in their respective districts. In addition, the department provides annual training for the Assistant U.S. Attorneys who serve as District Election Officers (DEOs) in their respective districts, which the department conducted this year on Aug. 31 and Sept.1. DEOs are responsible for overseeing potential election crime matters in their districts and coordinating with the departments election crime experts in Washington, D.C.   On Nov. 2, 2010, these offices will work together and with the FBI to ensure that complaints from the public involving possible voter fraud are handled appropriately and expeditiously.   Specifically:     Both protecting the right to vote and combating voter fraud are essential to maintaining the confidence of all Americans in our system of government.