More Than 100 Charged in Wide-Spread Auto Parts InvestigationA federal grand jury in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan returned an indictment charging one current automotive parts industry executive and one former automotive parts industry executive with conspiring to obstruct a federal investigation. The current executive also was charged with attempted obstruction of justice, the Justice Department announced today.The indictment, filed today in Detroit, charges Futoshi Higashida and Mikio Katsumaru with conspiring to obstruct a federal investigation. Higashida is also charged with attempted obstruction of justice. During the charged conspiracy, Katsumaru was employed by an automotive parts company in Japan, and Higashida worked there and in Novi, Michigan, as president of that companys U.S. joint venture with another company.According to the indictment, the defendants, along with their co-conspirators, conspired from at least as early as June 2008 until at least September 2012 to delete emails and electronic records and to destroy documents referring to communications with competitors. In addition, according to the indictment, Higashida instructed another individual on or about September 25, 2012, to ensure that no phone numbers or call records remained on his cellular telephone and that no data remained on his computer that would reflect competitor communications. The charges contained in the indictment are allegations and not evidence of guilt. The defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.Individuals will not escape prosecution by covering up or destroying evidence of their own or their companys wrong-doing, said Deputy Assistant Attorney General Brent Snyder of the Justice Departments Antitrust Division. Obstructing a federal antitrust investigation  criminal or civil  is a serious criminal violation that the Antitrust Division will vigorously pursue.Federal investigations are serious matters, and we will pursue any individuals who are involved in destroying evidence to keep it from the FBI, said Howard S. Marshall, Special Agent in Charge of the Louisville office of the FBI. The FBI is committed to aggressively investigating companies and individuals who engage in criminal conduct that corrupts the global marketplace. We will continue our work with the Department of Justices Antitrust Division to uncover schemes aimed at creating an unfair competitive advantage by way of price fixing, bid rigging or other illegal means."NoneHigashida Indictment