Attorney General Eric Holder announced today the appointment of United States Attorney John F. Walsh for the District of Colorado as chair of the Attorney Generals Advisory Committee of United States Attorneys (AGAC). Attorney General Holder also appointed United States Attorney Richard S. Hartunian for the Northern District of New York to serve as vice chair. Both appointments are effective immediately.Throughout their respective tenures in Colorado and the Northern District of New York, John Walsh and Richard Hartunian have been thoughtful leaders of the United States Attorney community, fierce advocates for the citizens they serve, and champions of the cause of justice, said Attorney General Holder. Each of them has been instrumental in addressing sensitive legal issues, handling difficult cases, and shaping and implementing critical Smart on Crime reforms. I thank John and Richard for agreeing to lead the Attorney Generals Advisory Committee  and for lending their perspectives and deep experience to the pressing policy questions about which I, and Attorney General-designate Loretta Lynch, will surely look to them for guidance and counsel.U.S. Attorney Walsh previously served on the AGAC from February 2011 to January 2013 as the chair of the Medical Marijuana Working Group and co-chair of the White Collar/Fraud Subcommittee. He replaces U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of New York and Attorney General nominee Loretta E. Lynch.U.S. Attorney Hartunian was appointed to the AGAC in April 2013 and has served as the chair of the Border and Immigration Subcommittee in addition to serving on several committees. He replaces Acting Deputy Attorney General and former U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia Sally Quillian Yates.Attorney General Holder also thanked U.S. Attorney Lynch and Acting Deputy Attorney General Yates for serving as chair and vice chair of the AGAC for the past two years.I want to express my heartfelt personal thanks to both Loretta Lynch and Sally Yates for their outstanding leadership of the Attorney Generals Advisory Committee, said Attorney General Holder. It has been a pleasure and a privilege to work closely with them on a range of critical issues over the years. I am both proud and deeply gratified that the American people will continue to benefit from their service in the new roles to which President Obama has nominated them. And I am confident that the Department of Justice will only grow stronger under their leadership as Attorney General and Deputy Attorney General, respectively.The AGAC was created in 1973 to serve as the voice of the United States Attorneys and to advise the Attorney General on policy, management and operational issues impacting the offices of the United States Attorneys.