None  The fifth officer, Sergeant Arthur Archie Kaufman, was a supervisor who was not involved in the shooting, but who helped the other officers cover up what they had done. Kaufman was sentenced to six years in prison.  We hope that todays sentences give a measure of peace and closure to the victims of this terrible shooting, who have suffered unspeakable pain and who have waited so patiently for justice to be done. The officers who shot innocent people on the bridge and then went to great lengths to cover up their own crimes have finally been held accountable for their actions, said Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division Thomas E. Perez. As a result of todays sentencing, the city of New Orleans can take another step forward.  Our undying gratitude goes to our partners in the Civil Rights Division and FBI who, together with the tremendous professionals in the United States Attorney=s Office, made today=s closure  and justice  possible, said U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Louisiana Jim Letten. I am equally grateful to the courageous families of James Brissette and Ronald Madison who gave their lives on the bridge, as well as to those who suffered abuse needlessly at the hands of a few corrupt police officers. We will never relent, back down or give up our fight to ensure that our citizens  especially those most vulnerable among us  never have to fear those who are sworn to protect them.  Todays sentencings send a strong message that no one is above the law and the civil rights of all of our citizens are paramount in a free society, said Special Agent in Charge of the FBIs New Orleans Division David Welker. My hope as we move forward is that the men and women of NOPD and all law enforcement will conduct themselves always in a manner that will withstand the scrutiny of the bright light of justice.  Bowen, Gisevius, Faulcon and Villavaso were convicted in connection with the shootings of multiple victims, including 17-year-old James Brissette and 40-year-old Ronald Madison, who died on the bridge. Those four officers and a supervisor, Kaufman, also were convicted of obstructing justice during the subsequent investigations.NoneNoneNone