The Department of Justice, 21 states, and the District of Columbia reached a nearly $864 million settlement agreement with Moodys Investors Service Inc., Moodys Analytics Inc., and their parent, Moodys Corporation, the Department announced today. The settlement resolves allegations arising from Moodys role in providing credit ratings for Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities (RMBS) and Collateralized Debt Obligations (CDO), contributing to the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.The agreement resolves pending state court lawsuits in Connecticut, Mississippi, and South Carolina, as well as potential claims by the Justice Department, 18 states and the District of Columbia.The settlement follows an investigation by the Justice Departments Consumer Protection Branch and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of New Jersey into potential claims pursuant to the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act (FIRREA) and investigations conducted by various State Attorneys General pursuant to state law."Moodys failed to adhere to its own credit rating standards and fell short on its pledge of transparency in the run-up to the Great Recession," said Principal Deputy Associate Attorney General Bill Baer. "Todays settlement contains not only a significant penalty and factual admissions of its conduct, but also a commitment by Moodys to new and continued compliance measures designed to ensure the integrity of credit ratings going forward.""Our investigation revealed, and Moodys has now acknowledged, that Moodys used a more lenient standard than it had itself published," said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer, head of the Justice Departments Civil Division. "Investors relied on Moodys credit ratings to be objective and independent, and they naturally expected Moodys to follow its own published methods.""Moodys touted a particularly robust analytical framework for rating RMBS and CDOs," said U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman for the District of New Jersey. "Moodys now admits that it deviated from its methodologies and failed to disclose those changes to the public. People making decisions on how to invest their money thought they could rely on the ratings Moodys assigned to these products. When securities are not rated openly and honestly, individual investors suffer, as does confidence in all parts of the financial sector."The multi-faceted settlement includes a Statement of Facts in which Moodys acknowledges key aspects of its conduct, and a compliance agreement to prevent future violations of law. The Statement of Facts addresses Moodys representations to investors and the public generally about: (1) its objectivity and independence; (2) its management of conflicts of interest; (3) its compliance with its own stated RMBS and CDO rating methodologies and standards; and (4) the analytic integrity of certain rating methodologies.The Statement of Facts addresses whether Moodys credit ratings were compromised by what Moodys itself acknowledged were the conflicts of interest inherent in the so-called "issuer pay" model, under which Moodys and other credit rating agencies are selected by the same entity that puts together and markets the rated securities and therefore stands to benefit from higher credit ratings.Among other things, Moodys acknowledges in the Statement of Facts: The Statement of Facts further addresses other important aspects of Moodys rating methodologies, including its "inconsistent use of present value discounts" in assigning CDO ratings and its selection of assumptions about the correlations between assets in CDOs.Under the terms of the compliance commitments, Moodys agrees to maintain a host of measures designed to ensure the integrity of its credit ratings. These include:"The Department of Justice is committed to working with companies that are willing to admit what they did and take steps to enhance compliance," said Deputy Assistant Attorney General Jonathan Olin for the Departments Consumer Protection Branch. "Non-monetary measures such as those agreed to today are part of the Departments comprehensive approach to protect the American people by promoting a culture of compliance across industries."The settlement includes a $437.5 million federal civil penalty, which is the second largest payment of this type ever made to the federal government by a ratings agency. The remainder will be distributed among the settlement member states in alignment with terms of the agreement. The states involved in todays settlement include Arizona, California, Connecticut, Delaware, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Mississippi, Missouri, New Hampshire, New Jersey, North Carolina, Oregon, Pennsylvania, South Carolina and Washington as well as the District of Columbia.The matter was handled by Consumer Protection Branch Senior Litigation Counsel Sondra L. Mills, and Trial Attorney James T. Nelson; and by the U.S. Attorneys Office District of New Jersey Deputy Chief, Civil Division Leticia Vandehaar and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Thomas G. Strong and Alex S. Weinberg.None   