  The Department of Justice today restrained the 1909 Pablo Picasso painting Compotier et tasse  estimated to be worth $11.5 million  on behalf of the Italian government, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Departments Criminal Division; U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara of the Southern District of New York; and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Director John Morton.  The restraining order was obtained in response to an official request by the government of Italy, pursuant to the treaty between the United States of America and the Italian Republic on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters for assistance in connection with its ongoing criminal investigation and prosecution of Gabriella Amati. Amati and her late husband, Angelo Maj, were charged by the Italian Public Prosecutors Office in Milan with embezzlement and fraudulent bankruptcy offenses under Italian law, and Italian prosecutors have obtained a restraining order for the Picasso painting in connection with the criminal proceeding.  According to documents filed in the Italian criminal proceeding, Amati and Maj, in collaboration with a public official of the city of Naples, Italy, employed various schemes to misappropriate tax receipts collected for Naples by companies the couple controlled. In addition, the Italian prosecutors alleged that Amati and Maj orchestrated a number of schemes to embezzle Naples tax revenue, including the use of fraudulent service contracts, forged accounting records, inflated operational expenses and fraudulently claimed refunds to Naples taxpayers, all to justify transfers to the couples own bank accounts of the taxes that were collected for the city, resulting in a loss of approximately 33 million Euros ($44 million) to Naples.  On May 21, 2013, ICE Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) special agents in New York located and recovered the painting, which was being offered for private sale in the amount of $11.5 million.  An application to enforce the Italian restraining order was filed on June 21, 2013, in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, seeking to restrain the Picasso painting belonging to Amati and Maj and located in New York City. U.S. District Judge Victor Marrero granted the U.S. governments application and issued a restraining order prohibiting the removal, sale or disposition of the Picasso painting from the courts jurisdiction. The United States is working in close cooperation with the Italian Public Prosecutors Office in Milan and the Justice Departments Attach in Rome to forfeit the painting in an effort to repatriate the Picasso to Italy.  Restraining this Picasso painting is yet another example of the Justice Departments close partnership with law enforcement around the world, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Raman. Our asset forfeiture section is committed to finding and securing every last penny of criminal proceeds and putting those ill-gotten proceeds back in the hands of victims, regardless of where they reside.  We are pleased to have played a role in securing this valuable work of art by the celebrated artist, Pablo Picasso, on behalf of the Italian government, said U.S. Attorney Bharara. Our commitment to taking the profit out of crime transcends national boundaries and is the operating principle of our asset forfeiture program.None