NoneThe Swiss Bank Program, which was announced on Aug. 29, 2013, provides a path for Swiss banks to resolve potential criminal liabilities in the United States. Swiss banks eligible to enter the program were required to advise the department by Dec. 31, 2013, that they had reason to believe that they had committed tax-related criminal offenses in connection with undeclared U.S.-related accounts. Banks already under criminal investigation related to their Swiss-banking activities and all individuals were expressly excluded from the program.Under the program, banks are required to:Make a complete disclosure of their cross-border activities;Provide detailed information on an account-by-account basis for accounts in which U.S. taxpayers have a direct or indirect interest;Cooperate in treaty requests for account information;Provide detailed information as to other banks that transferred funds into secret accounts or that accepted funds when secret accounts were closed;Agree to close accounts of accountholders who fail to come into compliance with U.S. reporting obligations; andPay appropriate penalties.Swiss banks meeting all of the above requirements are eligible for a non-prosecution agreement.According to the terms of the non-prosecution agreements signed today, each bank agrees to cooperate in any related criminal or civil proceedings, demonstrate its implementation of controls to stop misconduct involving undeclared U.S. accounts and pay a penalty in return for the departments agreement not to prosecute these banks for tax-related criminal offenses.Cornr is headquartered in Lugano, Switzerland, with branch offices in Chiasso, Geneva, Locarno and Zurich, Switzerland. Cornr has two wholly owned affiliates: Cornr Banque (Luxembourg) SA, based in Luxembourg, and Cornr Bank (Overseas) Ltd., based in the Bahamas. Cornr offers a full range of traditional banking services, but it specializes in private banking, payment cards and securities trading.For 40 years, Cornr has offered both credit cards and prepaid debit cards under its CornrCard brand name to its clients and clients of other financial institutions. Since Aug. 1, 2008, U.S. persons held 1,312 CornrCard accounts at Cornr. Use of CornrCards by U.S. persons facilitated their access to and use of any undeclared funds on deposit at Cornr and at other Swiss banks.Cornr assisted certain of its U.S. clients to evade their U.S. tax obligations, file false federal tax returns with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and hide overseas assets from the IRS. Cornr opened, maintained and serviced accounts for U.S. persons that it knew were likely not declared to the IRS or the U.S. Department of the Treasury as required by U.S. law. Cornr also maintained correspondent accounts at a U.S. bank to facilitate certain transactions for its clients  namely, conducting wire transfers in U.S. dollars and collecting checks issued in U.S. dollars. Such transfers included transactions involving U.S.-related accounts.Between 2001 and 2008, Cornr relationship managers traveled to the United States on at least 10 occasions to visit existing Cornr clients. All of the U.S. client visits were approved by Cornr management. Cornr executives accompanied relationship managers on several of the trips to the United States and also visited with U.S. clients. Matters discussed during these client visits included account performance, account fees, account investment positions, alternative investments, increasing client deposits at Cornr, client satisfaction with Cornr, how to send account funds to the United States to purchase assets and referrals of new clients to Cornr by existing clients. Cornr relationship managers also met with holders of U.S.-related accounts in countries other than the United States and Switzerland, such as Italy.In August 2008, Cornrs executive board decided that:There would be no changes to Cornrs existing U.S.-related accounts at that time, based on the boards assessment that Cornr had not engaged in the same type of conduct as had UBS;Cornr would continue accepting new U.S. clients, but only after review by Cornrs compliance department and approval by an executive board member; andCornr would not accept any new U.S. clients coming from UBS.However, after August 2008, Cornr accepted new U.S.-related accounts from UBS, and Cornr had reason to know that some of these accounts were undeclared. Also, after August 2008, Cornr accepted new U.S.-related accounts, including one of the above-mentioned UBS accounts, without approval by an executive board member.Cornr provided its U.S. clients with the option to enter into hold-mail agreements, which allowed U.S. persons to keep evidence of their accounts outside of the United States in order to conceal assets and income from the IRS. Cornr also provided its U.S. clients with the option to request numbered accounts, including code-name accounts. Holders of these accounts were permitted to use code names in all of their correspondence addressed to Cornr and agreed that correspondence from Cornr addressed to the code names would be considered as addressed to the clients. Examples of code names used by U.S. persons for their numbered accounts at Cornr include Dumbledor, Windstopper, Rocking and Anticipation. Cornr understood that providing numbered accounts and permitting code-name correspondence allowed U.S. persons to keep their identities secret from U.S. authorities in order to conceal assets and income from the IRS.Cornr had U.S.-related accounts that were beneficially owned by U.S. persons but held in the names of structures, including entities such as corporations, foundations or trusts. Cornr knew, or had reason to know, that many of these structures were used by U.S. clients to help conceal their identities from the IRS. The structures were organized under the laws of various jurisdictions, including the Bahamas, Belize, the British Virgin Islands, Jersey, Liberia, Liechtenstein, the Marshall Islands, the Netherlands Antilles, Panama, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Vincent and the Grenadines and Uruguay. Cornr Bank (Overseas), Cornrs Bahamian affiliate, created international business corporations organized under the laws of the Bahamas, and several such corporations opened accounts at Cornr that were beneficially owned by U.S. persons.Since Aug. 1, 2008, Cornr held 383 U.S.-related accounts with over $351 million in assets. Cornr will pay a penalty of $5.068 million.Bank Coop is a Swiss retail bank headquartered in Basel, Switzerland. Bank Coop was founded in 1927, when the Swiss Confederation of Trade Unions and the Federation of Swiss Consumer Associations established it as a cooperative society under the name Cooperative Central Bank. Today, Bank Coop is a publicly traded company listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange. Basler Kantonalbank has been Bank Coops majority shareholder since December 1999. Bank Coop has 32 branches throughout Switzerland. It has never had offices, branches or subsidiaries outside the country.Bank Coop offered a variety of traditional Swiss banking services that it knew could assist, and did assist, U.S. clients in concealing their undeclared assets and income. These services included hold mail, numbered accounts and travel cash cards. Bank Coop accepted regular instructions from one client who is a U.S. citizen and resident to transfer approximately $9,500 to his account in the United States each month. After Aug. 1, 2008, Bank Coop opened accounts for U.S. residents who transferred assets from other Swiss financial institutions, including UBS and Credit Suisse AG, knowing that it was likely that the assets were undeclared.Bank Coop also processed substantial cash withdrawals in connection with the closure of some U.S.-related accounts. For example, in February 2012, a client visited Bank Coop three times and withdrew $30,000, 30,000 in euros and 25,000 in euros, respectively, on those visits. At that time, the client informed Bank Coop that he decided to close the account, expressing concern about recent developments regarding Swiss bank secrecy and disclosure requests by U.S. and EU authorities. In March 2012, the client withdrew approximately 30,000 in Swiss francs and, upon closing the account in June 2012, withdrew the remaining balance of approximately 5,000 euros.In April 2010, one client visited Bank Coop and requested that the bank purchase one kilogram of gold, which the client stored in his safety deposit box at Bank Coop. In August 2010, the client instructed Bank Coop to purchase another kilogram of gold, which was collected by the clients daughter. In March 2011, the client instructed Bank Coop to purchase another kilogram of gold, which the client stored in his safety deposit box. In September 2012, after being advised by Bank Coop that his account would be closed on account of his U.S. residence, the client instructed Bank Coop to sell the gold in his safety deposit box and credit the proceeds to his account at Bank Coop. In October 2012, the client instructed Bank Coop to close the account and send a crossed check of approximately $335,000 to a Swiss law firm.Bank Coop opened and maintained accounts held in the name of non-U.S. entities, including a Panama corporation and a Hong Kong corporation, while knowing that U.S. taxpayers were the true beneficial owners of the accounts held by these non-U.S. entities. In at least one instance, Bank Coop was aware that a U.S. person was the true beneficial owner of an account held by a Panama entity but accepted a false IRS Form W-8BEN from the entities directors. The false Form W-8BEN falsely declared that the beneficial owner was not a U.S. taxpayer and was signed by a director of the entity, who also was the director of the external asset manager that introduced the client to Bank Coop.In 2001, Bank Coop entered into a Qualified Intermediary (QI) Agreement with the IRS. The QI regime provided a comprehensive framework for U.S. securities-related information reporting and tax withholding by a non-U.S. financial institution. In general, if an accountholder wanted to trade in U.S. securities and avoid mandatory U.S. tax withholding, the QI Agreement required Bank Coop to obtain the consent of the accountholder to disclose the clients identity to the IRS. Bank Coop continued to service certain U.S. customers without disclosing their identity to the IRS and without considering the impact of U.S. criminal law on that decision. In 2001, a relationship manager, after winning a contest sponsored by Bank Coop, visited the United States. During the visit he secured from an accountholder a Declaration of U.S. Taxable Persons, in which the accountholder declared that she did not authorize Bank Coop to disclose her name to the U.S. tax authorities and instructed Bank Coop to sell her U.S. securities.Since Aug. 1, 2008, Bank Coop maintained 385 U.S.-related accounts, with an aggregate maximum balance of approximately $71.4 million. Bank Coop will pay a penalty of $3.223 million.NoneMost U.S. taxpayers who enter the IRS Offshore Voluntary Disclosure Program to resolve undeclared offshore accounts will pay a penalty equal to 27.5 percent of the high value of the accounts. On Aug. 4, 2014, the IRS increased the penalty to 50 percent if, at the time the taxpayer initiated their disclosure, either a foreign financial institution at which the taxpayer had an account or a facilitator who helped the taxpayer establish or maintain an offshore arrangement had been publicly identified as being under investigation, the recipient of a John Doe summons or cooperating with a government investigation, including the execution of a deferred prosecution agreement or non-prosecution agreement. With todays announcement of these non-prosecution agreements, noncompliant U.S. accountholders at these banks must now pay that 50 percent penalty to the IRS if they wish to enter the IRS Offshore Voluntary Disclosure Program.Acting Assistant Attorney General Caroline D. Ciraolo of the Justice Departments Tax Division thanked the IRS and in particular, IRS-Criminal Investigation and the IRS Large Business & International Division for their substantial assistance. Acting Assistant Attorney General Ciraolo also thanked Gregory E. Van Hoey, Michael R. Pahl and Michael N. Wilcove, who served as counsel on these matters, as well as Senior Counsel for International Tax Matters and Coordinator of the Swiss Bank Program Thomas J. Sawyer, Senior Litigation Counsel Nanette L. Davis and Attorney Kimberle E. Dodd of the Tax Division.None