NoneNone   The departments Antitrust Division filed a civil antitrust lawsuit today in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia to block the proposed acquisition and related agreements between Gannett and Sander, including an option for Gannett to assign or acquire the Belo stations sold to Sander, a financing guarantee and a long-term shared services agreement.   At the same time, the department filed a proposed settlement that, if approved by the court, would resolve the competitive concerns alleged in the lawsuit.   Gannetts KSDKTV and Belos KMOVTV compete head-to-head in the sale of broadcast television spot advertising in the St.Louis area, and this rivalry constrains advertising rates, said Bill Baer, Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Department of Justices Antitrust Division.   The full divestiture required by the department will ensure that KMOV-TV will remain a vigorous competitor in St. Louis.   The departments complaint alleges that the proposed acquisition would lessen competition in broadcast television spot advertising in the St.Louis Designated Market Area (DMA).   Even though the two stations would maintain separate sales forces, the various agreements between Gannett and Sander, KMOVTVs new owner, would align the incentives of the two stations.   To remedy this harm, the proposed settlement requires Gannett, Belo and Sander to divest all assets primarily used in the operation of KMOVTV to an independent purchaser to be approved by the United States.   That purchaser will not be permitted to have any agreements with Gannett concerning KMOV-TV that could limit competition with KSDK-TV, including options to acquire or assign, financing agreements and shared services or joint sales agreements.   Gannett, a Delaware corporation with headquarters in McLean, Va., owns and operates 23 broadcast television stations nationwide, 12 of which are in the top 25 markets, as well as numerous newspapers.   Gannetts KSDKTV is the NBC affiliate in St.Louis.   Belo, a Delaware corporation with headquarters in Dallas, owns and operates 20 broadcast television stations nationwide, nine of which are in the top 25 markets.   Belos KMOVTV is the CBS affiliate in St.Louis.   Sander, a Delaware limited liability company with headquarters in Scottsdale, Ariz., has no current business activity other than preparing to acquire six Belo stations, including KMOVTV in St.Louis, as part of the transactions between Gannett, Belo and Sander.   As required by the Tunney Act, the proposed settlement, along with a competitive impact statement, will be published in the Federal Register.   Any person may submit written comments concerning the proposed settlement during a 60day comment period to ScottA. Scheele, Chief, Telecommunications and Media Enforcement Section, Antitrust Division, U.S. Department of Justice, 450Fifth Street, N.W., Suite7000, Washington, D.C. 20530.   At the conclusion of the 60day comment period, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia may approve the proposed settlement upon finding that it is in the public interest.