ST. LOUIS  Former Lincoln County, Mo., Sheriffs Office Detective Scott Edwards, 49, of Troy, Mo. was indicted on civil rights charges for violating the constitutional rights of five women through acts of aggravated sexual abuse and sexual contact, the Justice Department announced today. Edwards was indicted by a federal grand jury on two counts of deprivation of rights under color of law including aggravated sexual abuse; and three counts of deprivation of rights under color of law including sexual contact. According to the indictment filed in the Eastern District of Missouri, Edwards was a detective for the Lincoln County Sheriffs Department and served as a drug court tracker for the drug court. The Lincoln County Drug Court includes a treatment and rehabilitation program for drug offenders sentenced by the court. The drug court contracts with the Lincoln County Sheriffs Office to employ law enforcement officers to serve as part-time drug court trackers who monitor the whereabouts and curfews of drug court participants as needed. The indictment alleges that Edwards engaged in acts that resulted in bodily injury and included aggravated sexual abuse with two of the female victims, and engaged in acts that included sexual contact with three of the female victims. Additionally, the indictment alleges that Edwards restrained and confined one of the female victims by force, intimidation and deception. If convicted, Edwards faces possible life in prison. Anyone who has additional information or believes they may have been a victim of Edwards conduct are encouraged to call the FBI St. Louis Office at 314-241-4324. This case was investigated by the FBI and the Troy Police Department, with the assistance of the Lincoln County Sheriffs Office. Assistant U.S. Attorney Hal Goldsmith from the Eastern District of Missouri and U.S. Department of Justice Civil Rights Division Trial Attorney Fara Gold are handling the case for the United States. As is always the case, charges set forth in an indictment are merely accusations and do not constitute proof of guilt. Every defendant is presumed to be innocent unless and until proven guilty.