Oneike Mickhale Barnett pleaded guilty today in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida in Ft. Lauderdale to one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud, the Justice Department, U.S. Postal Inspection Service, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations and U.S. Marshals Service announced. Barnett, a Jamaican citizen, was charged in connection with a lottery scheme based in Jamaica that fraudulently induced elderly victims in the U.S. to send Barnett and his co-conspirators thousands of dollars to cover fees for lottery winnings that victims had not won. This prosecution is part of the Department of Justices effort, working with federal and local law enforcement, to combat fraudulent lottery schemes in Jamaica preying on American citizens. According to theU.S. Postal Inspection Service, Americans have lost tens of millions of dollars to fraudulent foreign lotteries and sweepstakes.NoneNoneNone The United States Postal Inspection Service is dedicated to investigating and uncovering lottery fraud from Jamaica and combating such fraud, said U.S. Postal Inspector in Charge for the Miami Division Ronald Verrochio. Lottery fraud from Jamaica against American citizens is a very challenging problem, but as this case demonstrates, law enforcement in the U.S. working with our partners in Jamaica will continue to aggressively pursue such scammers even if they base their operations outside of the U.S., said Special Agent in Charge for Homeland Security Investigations in Miami Alysa D. Erichs. Working with our law enforcement partners at the Postal Inspection Service and Homeland Security Investigations, the Marshals Service was pleased to be able to help catch this defendant and bring him to justice, said Acting U.S. Marshal Neil DeSousa. Assistant Attorney General Delery and U.S. Attorney Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the U.S. Postal Inspection Service, Homeland Security Investigations, the U.S. Marshals Service and Jamaicas Major Organized Crime and Anti-Corruption Task Force. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Bertha Mitrani and Consumer Protection Branch, Civil Division Assistant Director Jeffrey Steger and trial attorney Kathryn Drenning.