  King County, Wash. and the city of Seattle have agreed to invest in major upgrades to local sewage and combined stormwater collection, piping and treatment under settlements with the Department of Justice and the U.S Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The state of Washington was a co-plaintiff and partner in these settlements.  The agreements are the result of extensive federal and state government cooperation and pave the way for employing more green infrastructure projects like green roofs, permeable pavements and urban runoff gardens, which help reduce demands on local sewer and stormwater systems.  Todays settlement will substantially reduce overflows of sewage-contaminated stormwater into the Puget Sound and other area waterways and significantly benefit the environment and health of residents of King County and Seattle, said Ignacia S. Moreno, Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division. The agreement provides a long-term planning approach to managing the areas stormwater that integrates green infrastructure and requires improvements to system-wide sewer operations and maintenance.None  KING COUNTY  Under the terms of the county settlement, King County will implement a long-term plan for controlling sewer overflows. By implementing these measures, King County will reduce its raw sewage discharges by approximately 95 to 99 percent, better protecting Puget Sound, Lake Washington and the Duwamish River from sewage-laced overflows. The improvements and upgrades are expected to cost approximately $860 million. In addition, King County will pay a civil penalty of $400,000.  The agreement allows the county to substitute green infrastructure projects, like green roofs, permeable pavements and urban gardens, which help reduce the demands on local sewer and stormwater systems, at four of its sewer overflow control projects.  Between 2006 and 2010, King County discharged approximately 900 million gallons of raw sewage to waters of the United States on an annual basis through discharges from its combined sewer system. During this time period, the county also violated the effluent limitations of its discharge permit, including fecal coliform at more than one of its wastewater treatment plants, and allowed wastewater to bypass secondary treatment at one of its wastewater treatment plants in violation of its discharge permit and the Clean Water Act.  CITY OF SEATTLE  Under the settlement with the city of Seattle, the city will develop and implement a long-term plan for better controlling sewer overflows and improve system-wide operations and maintenance. The city will also implement plans to control fats, oils and greases, and reduce debris being discharged by the system. In addition, the settlement provides Seattle with the opportunity to also use an integrated planning approach and to substitute green infrastructure at several of its sewer overflow control projects. By implementing these measures, the city will reduce its raw sewage discharges by approximately 99 percent at an estimated cost of $600 million. Seattle will also pay a civil penalty of $350,000.None  The settlement, lodged today in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington, is subject to a 30-day public comment period and approval by the federal court. The consent decree can be viewed on the Justice Department website: http://www.justice.gov/enrd/Consent_Decrees.html  More information about the settlement: www.epa.gov/enforcement/water/cases/washington.html  More information about EPAs national enforcement initiative: http://www.epa.gov/compliance/data/planning/initiatives/2011sewagestormwater.htmlNone