The Justice Department announced that today in federal court, Joseph Howard Williams, 61, of Brunswick, Georgia, pleaded guilty to federal charges regarding the illegal harvest and sale of Atlantic Striped Bass from federal waters off the coast of North Carolina in 2010.According to information in the public record, in February 2010, a Special Agent with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) received information that commercial trawlers were illegally fishing for Atlantic Striped Bass in federal waters off the coast of North Carolina. Since 1990, there has been a ban on harvesting Atlantic Striped Bass from the United States Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ), which includes waters located three to 200 miles seaward of the U.S. coastline. Upon receiving the information, NOAA engaged the assistance of the U.S. Coast Guard. A single patrol vessel in the area intercepted one of 17 commercial trawlers in the EEZ, the fishing vessel Lady Samaira, boarded the vessel and found 173 Atlantic Striped Bass. The captain later admitted to taking the fish from the EEZ.NoneNoneViolating the fishing ban is illegal and can undermine the sustainability of an important natural resource and disadvantage the many law abiding fishermen who depend upon this fishery, said Assistant Attorney General John C. Cruden for the Environment and Natural Resources Division. Todays plea agreement demonstrates the departments commitment to pursuing those who violate the laws enacted to protect and conserve important marine resources.Our office is pleased to partner with the Environment and Natural Resources Division of the Department of Justice in these significant cases, said U.S. Attorney John Stuart Bruce for the Eastern District of North Carolina. These prosecutions make clear that efforts to circumvent laws regulating commercial fishing -- which are implemented to sustain the species for the benefit of future generations -- will be enforced vigorously.A sentencing hearing has been scheduled for the March 27, 2017, term of court. Williams faces a maximum sentence of five years in prison, a $250,000 fine and forfeiture of the all of the fish illegally harvested and the equipment used to commit the offense, including the commercial trawler, and all gear, electronics and other harvesting and sorting equipment on the trawler.The overall investigation was conducted by the Law Enforcement Offices of NOAA, with assistance of the Investigative Service from the U.S. Coast Guard, the North Carolina Marine Patrol and the Virginia Marine Police. This case is being prosecuted by Senior Litigation Counsel Banumathi Rangarajan of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of North Carolina and Trial Attorney Lauren Steele of the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Divisions Environmental Crimes Section.