Terrance Anderson, aka Scooby, has been sentenced to federal prison on charges of sex trafficking of a minor and two counts of transporting adults in interstate commerce for prostitution. Anderson, 42, of Ellenwood, Ga., was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Thomas W. Thrash to serve 25 years in prison to be followed by seven years supervised release. Anderson was ordered to pay restitution to three victims totaling $154,500. Anderson pleaded guilty to the charges on July 19, 2013.NoneNone "Today's sentencing removes a dangerous individual from our streets who has repeatedly shown a callous disregard for the basic human rights of others, said Acting Special Agent in Charge Ricky Maxwell for the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Atlanta Field Office. Human trafficking and child exploitation cases such as this reaffirm the FBI's mission as we work to protect and help those that may not be able to help themselves." According to U.S. Attorney Yates, the charges and other information presented in court, from February 2008 through December 2011, Anderson ran a prostitution ring in which he advertised the sexual services of a minor and young women on the internet, including K.B., T.B., A.C. and other victims. He advertised on sites such as Backpage, Craigs List and Eros, as well as his own website, Rentsomethingsexy.com. Anderson caused K.B., a 17-year-old girl, to engage in commercial sex acts in multiple states, requiring her to earn $1,000 a day, work seven days-a-week and give all of her earnings to him. Anderson also transported 18-year-old T.B. and 24-year-old A.C. from Georgia to Virginia, where he required the young women to perform numerous commercial sex acts for his financial gain. Anderson previously pleaded guilty in August 2001 to using a cell phone, which is a facility of interstate commerce, to cause a juvenile to engage in prostitution and to being a felon in possession of a firearm. He received a sentence of seven years in federal prison after providing information to federal investigators about other sex trafficking crimes and testifying at the trial of two other human traffickers. However, Anderson resumed his sex trafficking activities after completing his prison sentence. This case was investigated by Special Agents of the FBI. If anyone has any information about human trafficking, they are encouraged to report the information to the FBI at 404-679-9000.Assistant U.S. Attorney Susan Coppedge of the Northern District of Georgia and Deputy Chief Karima Maloney of the Civil Rights Division prosecuted the case. None 