NoneNone To bill Medicare for home health services, a home health agency must have a physicians order. El-Fallal admitted in court documents that he entered into an agreement with Shahab under which El-Fallal would sign physicians orders for Patient Choice and All American using the identity of a licensed physician. El-Fallal worked as a medical assistant with the physician who was suffering from mental illness at the time. According to court documents, El-Fallal was paid approximately $100 by Shahab for therapy orders he signed as the licensed physician. By signing the orders using the physicians identity, El-Fallal facilitated the ability of Patient Choice and All American to bill Medicare for home health visits that either were not done or were medically unnecessary. According to court documents, El-Fallal, using the physicians identity, signed orders that caused approximately $2,802,461 in home health claims by Patient Choice and All American. Todays sentence was announced by Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Criminal Division; U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Michigan Barbara L. McQuade; Special Agent in Charge Andrew G. Arena of the FBIs Detroit Field Office; and Special Agent in Charge Lamont Pugh III of the HHS Office of Inspector Generals (OIG) Chicago Regional Office.The case was prosecuted by Assistant Chief John K. Neal and Trial Attorney Gejaa T. Gobena of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section. The case was investigated by the FBI and HHS-OIG, and was brought as part of the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, supervised by the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of Michigan.Since its inception in March 2007, Medicare Fraud Strike Force operations in seven districts have obtained indictments of more than 825 individuals and organizations that collectively have billed the Medicare program for more than $2 billion. In addition, HHSs Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, working in conjunction with the HHS-OIG, are taking steps to increase accountability and decrease the presence of fraudulent providers. None