None     The departments Antitrust Division filed a civil antitrust lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Oklahoma against OSCIPA and executive director, Larry M. Bridges. At the same time, the department filed a proposed settlement that, if approved by the court, would resolve the lawsuit.     By jointly negotiating fees on behalf of competing chiropractors, the association and its executive director increased the prices that consumers paid for chiropractic services in Oklahoma, said Bill Baer, Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Department of Justices Antitrust Division. Todays settlement promotes competition among Oklahoma chiropractors and prevents the association and its executive director from engaging in illegal conduct that caused consumers to pay more for their health care.     According to the complaint, OSCIPAwhich is comprised of approximately 45 percent of all practicing chiropractors in Oklahomaand Bridges collectively negotiated the rates and price-related terms for at least seven contracts with insurers on behalf of OSCIPAs members and required members to suspend their pre-existing contracts with those same insurers. The association and Bridges also required OSCIPAs members to accept only reimbursements above a certain level and prohibited members from offering insurers incentives or rebates, such as by waiving deductibles. Except for members who were part of the same practice groups, OSCIPAs members were not clinically or financially integrated, and the associations and Bridges actions were not necessary to achieve any benefits for consumers.     The proposed settlement will prevent the association and Bridges from establishing prices or terms for chiropractic services and from negotiating with insurers on behalf of competing chiropractors. The proposed settlement also will prevent them from attempting to facilitate joint negotiations and from communicating with chiropractors about any aspect of pricing or contracting.     The Oklahoma State Chiropractic Independent Physicians Association is headquartered in Tulsa, Okla. Bridges has been employed by OSCIPA as its executive director since at least 1999.      The proposed settlement, along with the departments competitive impact statement, will be published in the Federal Register as required by the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act. Any person may submit written comments concerning the proposed settlement within 60 days of its publication to Peter J. Mucchetti, Chief, Litigation I Section, Antitrust Division, U.S. Department of Justice, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Suite 4100, Washington, D.C. 20530. At the conclusion of the 60-day comment period, the court may enter the final judgment upon finding that it serves the public interest.