  McKesson Corporation has agreed  to pay $18 million to resolve allegations that it improperly set temperature  monitors used in shipping vaccines under its contract with the Centers for  Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the Justice Department announced today.   McKesson is a pharmaceutical distributor with corporate headquarters in San  Francisco.   Companies must comply with the  requirements they agree to when they contract with the government to provide  products that protect the public, said Assistant Attorney General Stuart F.  Delery for the Justice Departments Civil Division.  If a contractor does not  adhere to the terms it negotiated, its conduct not only hurts taxpayers but also  could jeopardize the integrity of products, like vaccines, that Americans count  on to be safe.   The government alleged that  McKesson failed to comply with the shipping and handling requirements of its  vaccine distribution contract with the CDC.  Under the contract, McKesson  provided distribution services, receiving vaccines purchased by the government  from manufacturers and then distributing the vaccines to health care providers.   The government alleged that the contract required McKesson to ensure that during  shipping, the vaccines were maintained at proper temperatures by, among other  things, including electronic temperature monitors set to detect when the air  temperature in the box reached two degrees Celsius and below or eight degrees  Celsius and above.  The government alleged that, from approximately April 2007  to November 2007, McKesson failed to set the monitors to the appropriate range,  and as a result, knowingly submitted false claims to the CDC for shipping and  handling services that did not satisfy its contractual obligations. None   Ensuring the integrity and  performance of government contracts is paramount, especially when they impact  programs intended to protect young children said Derrick L. Jackson, special  agent in charge of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services-Office of  Inspector General (HHS-OIG) in Atlanta.  Holding accountable those who fail to  meet their obligations  thereby violating the trust of the American taxpayer --  continues to be a top OIG priority. None   This settlement illustrates the  governments emphasis on combating health care fraud and marks another  achievement for the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team  (HEAT) initiative, which was announced in May 2009 by the Attorney General and  the Secretary of Health and Human Services.  The partnership between the two  departments has focused efforts to reduce and prevent Medicare and Medicaid  financial fraud through enhanced cooperation.  One of the most powerful tools in  this effort is the False Claims Act.  Since January 2009, the Justice Department  has recovered a total of more than $20.2 billion through False Claims Act cases,  with more than $14 billion of that amount recovered in cases involving fraud  against federal health care programs.   The case was handled by the Civil  Divisions Commercial Litigation Branch and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the  Middle District of Tennessee, with assistance from HHS-OIG and Office of General  Counsel.  None