NoneThe consent decree, filed today in the U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland, creates a pathway toward lasting reform within BPD. The decrees requirements focus on building community trust, creating a culture of community and problem-oriented policing, prohibiting unlawful stops and arrests, preventing discriminatory policing and excessive force, ensuring public and officer safety, enhancing officer accountability and making needed technological upgrades. Under the agreement, the parties will jointly recommend an independent monitor to the court to assess whether the requirements of the agreement are being implemented. The independent monitor will report publicly on BPDs implementation efforts on a regular basis. In the joint motion filing the decree, the parties requested that the court provide an opportunity for members of the public and stakeholders throughout Baltimore to provide written submissions to the court about the proposed decree, and then hold a public hearing. Last August, we concluded that the Baltimore Police Department had engaged in conduct that deprived the people of Baltimore of the rights and protections guaranteed to every American, and that the deeply-rooted mistrust between law enforcement officers and the community they serve harmed all who call Baltimore home, said Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch. After thorough, good-faith negotiations, the Department of Justice and the city of Baltimore have agreed to enter into a court-enforceable consent decree to remedy the violations identified in our investigation. The reforms in this consent decree will help ensure effective and constitutional policing, restore the communitys trust in law enforcement, and advance public and officer safety. We could not be prouder to partner with the people of Baltimore on this journey towards making their city a community that protects the dignity, rights, and safety of all its people.Under the consent decree, the city and BPD will implement comprehensive reforms to end the legacy of Baltimores zero tolerance policing, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta, head of the Civil Rights Division. In its place, BPD will empower its officers to engage in proactive, community-oriented policing. And given our experiences in many other cities, I firmly believe that when focused, measurable and detailed reforms are implemented effectively, they restore community trust and advance officer and public safety.Under the consent decree, the city of Baltimore and BPD will implement comprehensive reforms that will ensure that: The Justice Department announced its findings in August 2016 following a thorough investigation into BPD started in May 2015. The department found that BPD made stops, searches and arrests without the required justification; used enforcement strategies that unlawfully subjected African Americans to disproportionate rates of stops, searches and arrests; used excessive force; and retaliated against individuals for their constitutionally-protected expression. The pattern or practice resulted from systemic deficiencies that persisted within BPD for many years and exacerbated community distrust of the police, particularly in African-American communities.In October 2014, city and BPD leadership requested to enter a collaborative reform process with the Justice Departments Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS office). After the Civil Rights Division opened the pattern-or-practice investigation in May 2015, the COPS office and the Justice Departments Office of Justice Programs have continued to offer federal resources, such as technical assistance, to the BPD, city officials and community leaders.NoneNoneNoneNoneNone