  Attorney General Eric Holder  announced today that the Justice Department has submitted filings in voting  rights cases in Wisconsin and Ohio.  The  departments involvement in these two cases represents its latest steps to  enforce the remaining parts of the Voting Rights Act against restrictive state  laws, following up on the departments lawsuits last year against similar  measures in Texas and North Carolina. None   These filings are necessary to  confront the pernicious measures in Wisconsin and Ohio that would impose  significant barriers to the most basic right of our democracy, said Attorney  General Eric Holder.   These two states  voting laws represent the latest, misguided attempts to fix a system that isnt  broken.   These restrictive state laws  threaten access to the ballot box.   The  Justice Department will never shrink from our responsibility to protect the  voting rights of every eligible American.    And we will keep using every available tool at our disposal to guard  against all forms of discrimination, to prevent voter disenfranchisement, and to  secure the rights of every citizen.  In the amicus brief filed today  in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, the department argues that  the district court reached the correct decision by finding that Wisconsins  voter ID law, known as Act 23, violated the Fourteenth Amendment, because it  imposes unjustified burdens on a significant number of voters, and violated  Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act, because it has a discriminatory result on  African-American and Hispanic voters.    In addition to finding that Act 23 would result in minority voters having  less opportunity to participate in the political process relative to other  members of the electorate, the court found that the states claimed interests in  combating voter fraud and promoting electoral confidence did not justify the  significant burdens Act 23 imposes on substantial numbers of voters who lack a  qualifying ID.   In the statement of interest  filed today in U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio, the  department makes clear that Section 2 prohibits the state of Ohio from imposing  any voting qualification, prerequisite to voting, or any standard, practice or  procedure that would result in the denial or abridgement of the right to vote on  account of a persons race, color or membership in a language minority group.   The filing also makes clear that in its  own filings in the case the state of Ohio has incorrectly interpreted its  requirements under Section 2.   The  department did not take a position on any of the other claims in the case.   The United States Department of  Justice today affirms its clear position that, under Wisconsins Act 23,  minority voters have less opportunity to participate in the political process,  said James L. Santelle, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of  Wisconsin.  The amicus brief  that we are filing not only supports the trial courts findings but also  reflects the departments continuing focus on ensuring that the franchise  remains fully available to all qualified voters.   Wisconsin's proud history is one  of expanding the opportunity to vote, said John W. Vaudreuil, United States  Attorney for the Western District of Wisconsin.   I'm honored to file this brief with the  United States Department of Justice seeking to ensure that this great Wisconsin  tradition is reaffirmed, and that every Wisconsin citizen has an equal  opportunity to participate in democracy.   This office remains committed to  preserving the rights of every Ohio voter, said Steven M. Dettelbach, United  States Attorney for the Northern District of Ohio.   Making sure that courts continue to  carefully examine voting restrictions, such as the ones recently imposed in this  state, is an important part of that effort.NoneNone