  Jeffrey Alan Wasley of Kennesaw, Ga., pleaded guilty today to production of child pornography related to surreptitiously videotaping young boys using public restrooms in Atlanta-area establishments, announced Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia Sally Quillian Yates.  Wasley, 38, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Clarence Cooper to producing child pornography. According to court documents and information presented at todays plea hearing, Wasley was a church youth counselor and former performing magician who stalked young boys in retail stores and childrens attractions. When Wasley observed young boys entering a restroom unaccompanied by an adult, he admitted he would also enter and secretly videotape the boys.  In July 2008, Wasley victimized five and seven year-old brothers in the mens restroom of a store in Kennesaw, according to information filed with the court and discussed at the plea hearing. These boys reported Wasleys conduct to their mother, who in turn notified store security. According to court documents, store security and Cobb County police were able to identify a likely suspect from store surveillance footage. When store security observed this same individual in the store several days later, they followed him to his car and noted his cars tag number, which was linked to Wasley. A subsequent search of Wasleys home yielded a computer containing six videos Wasley admitted he produced of boys in public restrooms, along with thousands of additional images of child pornography that Wasley had downloaded from the Internet.  Sentencing has been scheduled for June 10, 2010. At sentencing, Wasley faces a minimum mandatory prison term of 15 years, a maximum term of 30 years, a fine of up to $250,000 and the possibility of a lifetime period of supervised release.  This case was investigated by the U.S. Secret Service and the Cobb County Police Department. This case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Robert McBurney and Francey Hakes of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Northern District of Georgia and Trial Attorney Andrew McCormack of the Criminal Divisions Child Exploitation and Obscenity Section.