The Justice Department announced today that it has reached an agreement with Sellaris Enterprises, Inc. (Sellaris), a company that provides staffing services in Orlando, Florida. The agreement resolves the departments investigation into whether Sellaris violated the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) by discriminating against work-authorized immigrants when verifying their work authorization. Based on its investigation, the department concluded that Sellaris requested that non-U.S. citizens present specific documents to prove their work authorization, such as a Permanent Resident Cards or Employment Authorization Documents, while not requesting specific documents from U.S. citizens. All work-authorized individuals, whether citizens or non-citizens, have the right to choose which valid documentation to present to prove they are authorized to work. The anti-discrimination provision of the INA prohibits employers from subjecting employees to different or unnecessary documentary demands based on employees citizenship, immigration status or national origin. Under the settlement, Sellaris will pay a civil penalty of $120,000 to the United States, post notices informing workers about their rights under the INAs antidiscrimination provision, train its staff, and be subject to departmental monitoring and reporting requirements for three years. The law protects individuals who are work-authorized from discriminatory obstacles during the employment eligibility verification process, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Tom Wheeler of the Civil Rights Division. Employers must ensure that their employment eligibility verification processes are not applied in an unlawful manner. None None Applicants or employees who believe they were subjected to different documentary requirements based on their citizenship/immigration status or national origin, or discrimination based on their citizenship/immigration status, or national origin in hiring, firing, or recruitment or referral for a fee, should contact IERs worker hotline for assistance.