Seven individuals pleaded guilty to participating in a large-scale international online fraud conspiracy, announced Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Gregory K. Davis of the Southern District of Mississippi and Special Agent in Charge Raymond R. Parmer Jr. of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) in New Orleans.Rhulane Fionah Hlungwane, 26, of South Africa; Gabriel Oludare Adeniran, 30, of Nigeria; Olusegun Seyi Shonekan, 34, of Nigeria; Taofeeq Olamilekan Oyelade, 32, of Nigeria; Olufemi Obaro Omoraka, 27, of Nigeria; Anuoluwapo Segun Adegbemigun, 40, of Nigeria; and Adekunle Adefila, 41, of Nigeria, each pleaded guilty this week to one count of conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud. In addition, Hlungwane, Adeniran, Shonekan, Oyelade, Omoraka and Adegbemigun each pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit identity theft, access device fraud and theft of government funds.According to the plea agreements, the defendants and their co-conspirators carried out numerous internet-based fraud schemes dating back at least to 2001. These schemes involved using unsuspecting victims to cash counterfeit checks and money orders, using stolen credit card numbers to purchase electronics and other merchandise and using stolen personal identification information to take over victims bank accounts. As a whole, the conspiracy involved tens of millions of dollars in intended losses.The defendants admitted that, to accomplish their fraud schemes, they recruited the assistance of U.S. citizens via romance scams, in which the perpetrator would typically use a false identity on a dating website to establish a romantic relationship with an unsuspecting victim. Once the perpetrator gained the victims trust and affection, the perpetrator would convince the victim to either send money or to help carry out fraud schemes. For example, the defendants admitted that they used romance victims to launder money via Western Union and MoneyGram, to re-package and re-ship fraudulently obtained merchandise and to cash counterfeit checks.NoneHSI and the U.S. Postal Inspection Service investigated the case. Significant assistance was also provided by the Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs, the HSI Cyber Crimes Center, HSI Attachs in Pretoria and Dakar, U.S. Marshals Services International Investigations Branch and the Southern District of Mississippi, the South African Police Service (SAPS) Directorate of Priority Crimes Investigation (DPCI) Electronic Crimes Unit, the SAPS Interpol Extradition Unit, the South African National Prosecution Authorityand the South African Department of Justice and Constitutional Development. Trial Attorney Conor Mulroe of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section, Senior Counsel Peter Roman of the Criminal Divisions Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Annette Williams of the Southern District of Mississippi are prosecuting the case.