  WASHINGTON - P harmaceutical manufacturers Serono Laboratories Inc., EMD Serono Inc., Merck Serono S.A, and Ares Trading S.A. have agreed to pay $44.3 million to resolve False Claims Act allegations in connection with the marketing of the drug Rebif, the Justice Department announced.      The settlement resolves allegations that Serono paid health care providers from the launch of Rebif in about January 2002 through December 2009, to induce them to promote or prescribe Rebif, a recombinant interferon injectable that is used to treat relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis.   Serono is alleged to have made payments to providers for hundreds of speaker training meetings and programs, as well as payments for attending consultant, marketing and advisory board meetings, all at upscale resorts and other locations.   Seronos actions allegedly resulted in the submission of false claims to federal health care programs including Medicare and Medicaid for the payment of Rebif, i.e., claims that were tainted by kickbacks.   Its imperative that medical determinations are guided by a patient's needs, not tainted by illegal incentives or fraud, said Tony West, Assistant Attorney General of the Civil Division. We are committed to ensuring that the chronically ill and other vulnerable members in our communities who rely on Medicare and Medicaid programs receive the best possible care. None None   Under the agreement announced today, the proceeds from the settlement will be split between the federal government and various states, with the United States receiving $34.6 million to resolve the federal claims and the states receiving $9.7 million to settle their respective claims under Medicaid.   The settlement is part of the government's emphasis on combating health care fraud and another step for the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT), which was announced by Attorney General Eric Holder and HHS Secretary Kathleen Sebelius in May 2009.   The partnership between the two departments has focused efforts to reduce and prevent Medicare and Medicaid fraud through enhanced cooperation.   One of the most powerful tools in that effort is the False Claims Act, which the Justice Department has used to recover approximately $5.7 billion since January 2009 in cases involving fraud against federal health care programs.   The Justice Department's total recoveries in False Claims Act cases since January 2009 have topped $7.3 billion.   The settlement was the result of an investigation by the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Maryland with assistance from HHS-OIG; the Department of Defense Criminal Investigative Service; and the Civil Division of the U.S. Department of Justice.