A member of the Almighty Imperial Gangsters Nation was sentenced to 300 months in prison today in Southern District of Florida for conspiracy to conduct and participate in the affairs of the gang through a pattern of racketeering activity.Acting Assistant Attorney General Kenneth A. Blanco of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, Special Agent in Charge Michael J. Anderson of the FBIs Chicago Field Division and Special Agent in Charge George L. Piro of the FBIs Miami Field Division made the announcement.Miguel Pedraza, aka Fuzzy, 35, of Chicago, was sentenced to 300 months in prison for his involvement in the RICO conspiracy before U.S. District Judge Cecilia M. Altonaga of the Southern District of Florida. According to Pedrazas plea agreement, the Almighty Imperial Gangsters Nation is a violent street gang that originated in Chicago in the 1980s and expanded to other areas of the country, including Indiana and South Florida. Members and associates of the Almighty Imperial Gangsters Nation are responsible for numerous acts of violence, including murder, attempted murder, aggravated battery, aggravated assault, narcotics distribution and other criminal activities, occurring in Illinois, Indiana and the South Florida area and elsewhere. NonePedraza is the last of 16 defendants to be sentenced in this case. Co-defendants Victor Emmanuel Lopez, aka Magic, Jose Ivan Herrera, Spyro, Ramon Madruga, aka Porky, Alex Enrique Somarriba, A-Rock, Robert Martinez, aka Trap, Santiago Salcedo, aka Chino, Rogelio Perez, aka Popeye, Carlos Mena, aka Rollo, Piero Benitez, aka Bam Bam, Eddie Camacho, aka NeNe, Carlos Gomez, aka Lokes, Guillermo Sinisterra, aka Memo, Elio Quesada, aka Whiz, and Brandon Foeman, aka Drama.The FBI field offices in Miami and Chicago, along with the Miami-Dade Police Department; the City of Miami Police Department; the Chicago Police Department; the Franklin Park, Illinois, Police Department and the East Chicago Police Department investigated the case, with assistance from the U.S. Attorneys Offices for Southern District of Florida, the Northern District of Indiana and the Northern District of Illinois, the FBI and ATF field offices in Merrillville, Indiana, the State Attorneys Offices of Miami-Dade and Broward counties in Florida and the State Attorneys Offices in Cook and DuPage Counties in Illinois, as well as the Florida Department of Corrections and the Broward County Sheriffs Office.Trial Attorneys Joseph A. Cooley, Rebecca A. Staton and Nicholas J. Regalia of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section and the Forfeiture Section of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of Florida prosecuted the case, with the assistance of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Northern District of Indiana and the State Attorneys Offices for Miami-Dade and Broward counties.