Five alleged members and associates of the Black Mob Gangstas/Donald Gee Family (BMG/DGF), a set of the Bloods street gang, have been indicted in a superseding indictment returned by a federal grand jury in Raleigh, North Carolina, for various gang-related crimes, including conspiracy to participate in racketeering, murder, witness tampering and related offenses. Acting Assistant Attorney General Kenneth A. Blanco of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney John Stuart Bruce of the Eastern District of North Carolina, Special Agent in Charge John A. Strong of the FBI North Carolina Field Officeand Chief Cassandra Deck-Brown of the Raleigh Police Department made the announcement.Demetrice Regus Devine aka Respect, 34, of Raleigh; Dontaous Demond Devine aka Scooch and Boochie, 28, of Raleigh; Demetrius Deshaun Toney aka Meat, 24, of Raleigh; Brandon Jowan Mangum aka B-Easy, 28, of Knightdale, North Carolina; and Shaiona Marie Smith aka Slyfox, 22, of Raleigh, were charged in a 12-count superseding indictment returned on September 21, in U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina. Four of the defendants charged in the indictment are in custody.According to the indictment, the BMG/DGF is a set of the Bloods, a violent street gang with members operating in Raleigh, including the Haywood Street area, since the early 2000s. The indictment alleges that the BMG/DGF Bloods have a detailed hierarchical structure. Senior leadership, including Demetrice Regus Devine and Dontaous Demond Devine, regularly conducted formal meetings, collected dues from the rank and file members, and assaulted members who failed to pay dues or follow orders. Gang members earned money for their dues through various criminal activities, including robberies, fraud schemes and drug distribution. BMG/DGF members also committed various acts of violence in furtherance of the gangs activities, including murder, attempted murder and assaults.The indictment charges Demetrice Regus Devine, Dontaous Demond Devine, Toney and Mangum with conspiracy to participate in the racketeering activities of BMG/DGF Bloods and conspiracy to distribute narcotics. Demetrice Regus Devine and Dontaous Demond Devine are also each charged with one count of murder in aid of racketeering and related offenses, among other crimes.The charges and allegations contained in the indictment are merely accusations. The defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty in a court of law.FBI and the Raleigh Police Department investigated the case. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Dena King and Scott Lemmon of the Eastern District of North Carolina and Trial Attorney John C. Hanley of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section are prosecuting the case.