A Waxahachi, Texas, resident and former chief financial officer (CFO) of Arrow Trucking Company was sentenced today to serve 35 months in prison for conspiracy to commit bank fraud and to defraud the United States, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Caroline D. Ciraolo of the Justice Departments Tax Division and U. S. Attorney Danny C. Williams Sr. of the Northern District of Oklahoma.Jonathan Leland Moore, 38, pleaded guilty on Dec.4, 2014, to an information charging him with one count of a dual-object conspiracy to defraud the United States and to commit bank fraud. Moore conspired with James Douglas Pielsticker, 47, a resident of Dallas, and former CEO and president of Arrow Trucking Company, to defraud the United States by failing to account for and pay federal withholding taxes on behalf of Arrow Trucking Company and by making payments to Pielsticker outside the payroll system.Moore cooperated with the criminal investigation, including testifying on behalf of the government during Pielstickers sentencing hearing last week. On Oct. 9, Pielsticker was sentenced to serve seven and one-half years in prison and ordered to pay $21,026,682.03 in restitution for his role in the conspiracy and for attempting to evade his individual income taxes.Chief U.S. District Court Judge Gregory K. Frizzell of the Northern District of Oklahoma also sentenced Moore to serve three years of supervised release following his prison term and ordered him to pay $21,026,682.03 in restitution to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the Transportation Alliance Bank (TAB).According to the plea agreement and other court records, in 2009, Moore, Pielsticker and others withheld Arrow Trucking Company employees federal income tax withholdings, Medicare and social security taxes, but did not report or pay over these taxes to the IRS, despite knowing that they had a duty to do so. The conspirators paid for Pielstickers personal expenses with money from Arrow Trucking Company and submitted fraudulent invoices to TAB to induce the bank to pay funds to Arrow Trucking Company that were not warranted. In total, the conspiracy caused a loss to the United States totaling more than $9.562 million.Acting Assistant Attorney General Ciraolo and U.S. Attorney Williams commended the special agents of the IRS-CI and FBI, who investigated this case, and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Jeffrey A. Gallant and Catherine Depew of the Northern District of Oklahoma and Special Assistant U.S. Attorney and Tax Division Trial Attorney Charles A. OReilly, who prosecuted the case on behalf of the United States.None