  WASHINGTON  Kevin A. Ring, a former lobbyist who worked with Jack A. Abramoff, was sentenced today to 20 months in prison for his role in a scheme to corrupt public officials by providing an illegal stream of things of value, including vacations, employment for a congressmans wife, meals, drinks, and high-priced tickets to exclusive concerts and sporting events, the Department of Justice announced.  Ring, 41, was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Ellen S. Huvelle in the District of Columbia. Judge Huvelle also sentenced Ring to 30 months of supervised release following his prison term.  On Nov. 15, 2010, a jury convicted former lobbyist Ring of corrupting public officials. The jury found Ring guilty on one count of conspiring to corrupt congressional and executive branch officials by providing things of value to them and their staff members in order to induce or reward those who took official actions benefitting Ring and his clients. In addition, Ring was convicted of one count of paying a gratuity to a public official and three counts of honest services wire fraud for engaging in a scheme to deprive U.S. citizens of their right to the honest services of certain public officials. The jury acquitted Ring on three counts of honest services fraud. A previous federal jury failed to reach a verdict in the case and the court declared a mistrial.None  Evidence at trial demonstrated the nature of Rings lobbying efforts and his attempts to corrupt and reward public officials. In one e-mail message, Ring instructed his co-conspirators to thank your friends on the Hill and in the Administration. In fact, thank them over and over again this week  preferably for long periods of time and at expensive establishments. On another occasion, Ring described to a co-conspirator lobbyist what he expected of a public official who had attended a sporting event: Glad he got a chance to relax. Now he can pay us back. Similarly, Ring e-mailed a co-conspirator public official and stated: You are going to eat free off our clients. Need to get us some [appropriations] money. Testimony at trial from Rings co-conspirators described Ring joking about corrupting public officials by saying, Hello quid, wheres the pro quo.None  To date, 20 individuals, including lobbyists and public officials, have pleaded guilty or have been convicted at trial in connection with the investigation into the activities of Abramoff and his associates. Abramoff pleaded guilty in January 2006 to conspiracy to commit honest services fraud, honest services fraud and tax evasion. He was sentenced in September 2008 to 48 months in prison.  The case is being prosecuted by Assistant Chief Nathaniel B. Edmonds of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and Deputy Chief Peter Koski of the Criminal Divisions Public Integrity Section. The investigation of this case is being conducted by the FBIs Washington Field Office and the Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General.