An Arlington, Tennessee man was sentenced today to 18 months in prison and two years of supervised release for intentionally accessing a competing engineering firms computer network without authorization in order to obtain proprietary information. Acting Assistant Attorney General Kenneth A. Blanco of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and Acting U.S. Attorney Lawrence J. Laurenzi of the Western District of Tennessee made the announcement. None None This case shows that law enforcement officials throughout the Western District of Tennessee will work together to ensure that individuals participating in any criminal act will be brought to justice, said Acting U.S. Attorney Laurenzi. It is imperative that our business and corporate community remain protected from cybercrimes and other illegal security threats. The corporate community is a vital part of growth and development for any city. The professionals in the U.S. Attorneys Office, Western District of Tennessee, will continue our mission to ensure the safety and security of our businesses and corporations in our district. Security crimes will not be tolerated in this district. We will come after you. A spokesperson for Allen & Hoshall stated, We believe that computer crimes are serious and that pursuing and prosecuting violators in an ethical and responsible manner are important aspects of maintaining the safety and security of private, confidential information for everyone. We are grateful that the government conducted such a prosecution in this case. We believe the Courts sentence will send a clear message to Mr. Needham and the greater business community that cybercrimes, electronic snooping and otherwise accessing electronic information without authorization are real crimes that are unacceptable under the law and are subject to severe penalties. None The FBI investigated the case. Assistant U.S. Attorney Debra L. Ireland of the Western District of Tennessee and Senior Counsel Timothy C. Flowers of the Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section of the Justice Departments Criminal Division prosecuted the case.