None     The Department of Justice is committed to ensuring that health care providers who pay kickbacks in return for patient referrals are held accountable, said Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Civil Division Stuart F. Delery. Schemes such as this one corrupt the health care system and take advantage of vulnerable patients.       My office has made the investigation of health care fraud a priority, said U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of Georgia Michael J. Moore. In a time when too many people were struggling to get health care for themselves and their children, Tenet and these hospitals plundered a system set up for those truly in need. This kind of scheme drives up costs for everyone, not just the vulnerable patients and groups like those targeted in this case.  None       The Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce referrals of items or services covered by Medicare, Medicaid and other federally funded programs.The Anti-Kickback Statute is intended to ensure that a physicians medical judgment is not compromised by improper financial incentives and is instead based on the best interests of the patient.       Investigations such as these are a high priority for the FBI, and we are determined to hold accountable providers that enrich themselves at the expense of government programs and damage the public trust, said FBI Assistant Director Ronald T. Hosko. The FBI is dedicated to preventing and combating all forms of health care fraud; working with federal, state and local partners to effectively resolve allegations and engaging with the public to identify potential schemes. None       The governments intervention in this matter illustrates its emphasis on combating health care fraud and marks another achievement for the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT) initiative, which was announced in May 2009 by Attorney General Eric Holder and Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius. The partnership between the two departments has focused efforts to reduce and prevent Medicare and Medicaid financial fraud through enhanced cooperation. One of the most powerful tools in this effort is the False Claims Act. Since January 2009, the Justice Department has recovered a total of more than $19 billion through False Claims Act cases, with more than $13.4 billion of that amount recovered in cases involving fraud against federal health care programs.     These matters were investigated by the Commercial Litigation Branch of the Justice Departments Civil Division, the Fraud Section of the departments Criminal Division, the U.S. Attorneys Offices for the Middle and Northern Districts of Georgia, the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Office of the Attorney General for the State of Georgia. None       The claims asserted against Tenet, the HMA facility and Clinica are allegations only, and there has been no determination of liability. 