Highlights Focus on Traditional Tax EnforcementWith the annual tax return filing deadline approaching, the Justice Departments Tax Division reminds U.S. taxpayers that willful failure to comply with our nations tax laws is a crime. Whether they willfully fail to file returns, file false returns, or evade tax due, taxpayers who cheat will face serious consequences including prison and monetary sanctions.Our nation depends on all taxpayers, regardless of age, profession or economic status, to file accurate returns and promptly pay their taxes, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Caroline D. Ciraolo of the Justice Departments Tax Division. Individuals and businesses that willfully fail to comply with their legal responsibilities harm not only the U.S. Treasury, but also all Americans who are paying their fair share. The department is committed to continuing to aggressively prosecute those individuals who seek to circumvent U.S. tax laws.Paying taxes is not a choice but a responsibility, said Chief Richard Weber of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI). IRS-Criminal Investigation works with our partners at the Department of Justice to enforce our nations tax laws and ensure that we are all playing by the same rules. IRS-CI special agents are specifically trained to investigate complex financial fraud, and bring their considerable skill and experience to these investigations. Those who think they can evade our efforts will find they are terribly mistaken.Over the past year, the Tax Division and the U.S. Attorneys Offices have worked closely with the IRS and other law enforcement partners to enforce the nations tax laws fully, fairly and consistently through criminal investigations and prosecutions across the country.Failure to File Tax Returns and Failure to Pay TaxesFiling False Tax ReturnsConcealing Income and Assets Through Nominee Entities and Offshore Bank AccountsUsing Businesses to Pay Personal ExpensesObstructing IRS Efforts to Assess and Collect TaxesThe Justice Department, along with our colleagues in the IRS, will continue to identify and vigorously pursue those engaged in tax crimes, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Ciraolo. These efforts are critical to the continued integrity of our national tax system and send a strong message to those individuals who make good faith efforts to comply with their tax obligations that we will hold accountable those who do not. If someone suspects or knows of an individual or a business that is not complying with the tax laws, we encourage them to report that information to the IRS.None