  A federal jury sitting in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania convicted Eugene Goldman, M.D., 55, of Philadelphia, of one count of conspiring to violate the anti-kickback statute and four counts of violating the anti-kickback statute in relation to his role in a kickback scheme arising from his employment as the Medical Director at Home Care Hospice Inc. (HCH), announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney Zane David Memeger of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.  The evidence at trial proved that from approximately December 2000 until approximately July 2011, Goldman served as the medical director for HCH and regularly referred Medicare or Medicaid patient beneficiaries to HCH. HCH was a for-profit business in Philadelphia that provided hospice services for patients at nursing homes, hospitals and private residences.  In December 2000, Goldman and one of the co-owners of HCH entered into a written contract to create the false appearance that all payments to Goldman from HCH were for services rendered in Goldmans capacity as medical director for HCH, when in fact the large majority of payments from HCH to Goldman were illegal payments for the referral of Medicare and/or Medicaid patients to HCH. From January 2003 to October 2008, Goldman received approximately $263,000 in illegal payments for patient referrals. In January, February and March 2009, Goldman was captured on tape receiving kickbacks for patient referrals.  Goldman faces a maximum penalty of five years in prison for each count of conviction when he is sentenced on Sept. 9, 2013, by U.S. District Judge Eduardo Robreno. The conviction will result in the mandatory exclusion of Goldman from participation in any federal health care program, and he also faces the possible loss of his medical license.  The case was investigated by the FBI and the Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General. Assistant U.S. Attorney Suzanne B. Ercole and Trial Attorney Margaret Vierbuchen of the Organized Crime and Gang Section in the Justice Departments Criminal Division prosecuted the case on behalf of the United States.