  Ashvin Desai, of San Jose,  California, was sentenced yesterday to serve six months in prison and six months  and one day of home confinement for concealing more than $8 million in foreign  bank accounts, the Justice Department and Internal Revenue Service (IRS)  announced.  Prior to yesterdays sentencing hearing, Desai filed with the court  a document indicating that the IRS has assessed and demanded payment of a  Reports of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts (FBAR) penalty against him for  $14,229,744.   In October 2013, a jury convicted  Desai, a medical device manufacturer, of failing to report his familys foreign  bank accounts to the government on tax returns and FBARs.  The jury also found  that Desai failed to disclose more than $1.2 million in interest income  generated by these accounts between 2007 and 2009.  Desai was sentenced by U.S.  District Judge Edward J. Davila.   According to the evidence  presented in court, Desai controlled several foreign bank accounts at HSBC in  India and Dubai, including accounts held in the name of his wife and adult  children.  Desai invested the funds in these accounts in certificates of  deposit, which earned interest at rates as high as nine percent.  Desai funded  these accounts by mailing checks from the United States and by transferring  money from other undeclared bank accounts in Singapore and the United Kingdom to  his familys accounts in India.  Desai also sold medical devices abroad, and, on  at least one occasion, directed that his customer wire funds directly to his  undeclared HSBC India account.   Between 2007 and 2009, Desai paid  approximately $17,000 in taxes.  However, Desai owed an additional $357,783 in  taxes to the IRS on his unreported interest income.  Desais deposits into his  foreign accounts also far exceeded the income he disclosed on his tax returns  each year.  In 2008, for example, he deposited nearly $1.1 million into foreign  accounts while only reporting income of $115,810.91 on his tax return.   The evidence at trial  demonstrated the steps Desai took to conceal his familys foreign accounts from  the government.  In addition to failing to report his accounts on tax returns  and FBARs, Desai also directed the bank not to mail bank statements to his  house.  On one occasion, Desai wrote an email in which he asked an HSBC banker:  Why are all the statements coming to Home address?  I thought we had a  different arrangement.   This case was investigated by  IRS-Criminal Investigation and prosecuted by Trial Attorney Melissa Siskind of  the Tax Division.