In a speech at the Brennan Center for Justice, Attorney General Eric Holder announced today that the federal prison population has dropped by roughly 4,800 inmates since September 2013. This represents the first time the federal inmate population has fallen, rather than risen, over the course of a fiscal year since 1980.Moreover, Attorney General Holder announced that current Bureau of Prisons estimates project this downward trend to continue in each of the next two fiscal years. In FY15, the inmate population is projected to drop by another 2,200 inmates. In FY16, the population is projected to drop by 10,000 inmates - or the equivalent of six federal prisons.This is nothing less than historic, said Attorney General Holder. Clearly, criminal justice reform is an idea whose time has come. And thanks to a robust and growing national consensus  a consensus driven not by political ideology, but by the promising work thats underway  we are bringing about a paradigm shift, and witnessing a historic sea change, in the way our nation approaches these issues.While these statistics show progress at the federal level, there is similar progress at the state level. Overall, incarceration rates have fallen by roughly 10 percent since President Obama took office, and that has occurred simultaneously with a similarly-sized reduction in crime rates.The Attorney Generals full remarks to the law enforcement conference, as prepared for delivery appear below:Thank you, Jim [Johnson], for those kind words; for your friendship over the many years weve known one another  since we served together in the Clinton Administration; and for your leadership, along with Doug Jones, as co-chair of the Brennan Centers Blue Ribbon Panel.Id also like to thank the Brennan Centers distinguished president, my friend Michael Waldman, and your entire staff  particularly the Justice Program  for bringing us together today. Its an honor to take part in this important conference. Its a privilege to be at NYU Law School for the second time in as many weeks. And its a great pleasure, as always, to be back home in New York City.For nearly two decades, the Brennan Center has provided indispensable leadership on issues ranging from campaign finance and voting rights to national security and equal justice. Youve offered rigorous research and expert guidance to policymakers at every level of government. And with this conference  and the report youre unveiling today  youre taking yet another step to advance our efforts to address some of our nations most critical challenges  few of which are more complex, or more urgent, than the need to strengthen Americas criminal justice system and reduce our overreliance on incarceration.As you know, we gather this afternoon just over a year after the launch of the Justice Departments Smart on Crime initiative  a series of important changes and commonsense reforms I set in motion last August. Already, these changes are fundamentally shifting our response to certain crime challenges  particularly low-level, nonviolent drug offenses. And this initiative is predicated on the notion that our work as prosecutors must be informed, and our criminal justice system continually improved, by the most effective and efficient strategies available.After all  as Ive often said  the United States will never be able to prosecute or incarcerate its way to becoming a safer nation. We must never, and we will never, stop being vigilant against crime  and the conditions and choices that breed it. But, for far too long  under well-intentioned policies designed to be tough on criminals  our system has perpetuated a destructive cycle of poverty, criminality, and incarceration that has trapped countless people and weakened entire communities  particularly communities of color.In recent decades, the effects of these policies  and the impact of the truth-in-sentencing mindset  have been dramatic. Although the United States comprises just five percent of the worlds population, we incarcerate almost a quarter of its prisoners. The entire United States population has increased by about a third since 1980. But the federal prison population has grown by almost 800 percent over the same period. Spending on corrections, incarceration, and law enforcement has exploded, consuming $260 billion per year nationwide. And the Bureau of Prisons currently commands about a third of the Justice Departments overall budget.NoneNoneNoneNoneWe know that over-incarceration crushes opportunity. We know it prevents people, and entire communities, from getting on the right track. And weve seen that  as more and more government leaders have gradually come to recognize  at a fundamental level, it challenges our commitment to the cause of justice.NoneNoneNoneClearly, criminal justice reform is an idea whose time has come. And thanks to a robust and growing national consensus  a consensus driven not by political ideology, but by the promising work thats underway, and the efforts of leaders like Senators Patrick Leahy, Dick Durbin, Mike Lee, and Rand Paul  we are bringing about a paradigm shift, and witnessing a historic sea change, in the way our nation approaches these issues.Of course, for these changes to become permanent, well need to rely on the dedication  and the leadership  of federal prosecutors in Washington and in all 94 of our United States Attorneys Offices. As a career prosecutor myself  and as former U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia  I have always had the utmost confidence in, and respect for, these hardworking men and women. And thats why, as Attorney General, Ive consistently advocated policies that push discretion out into the field.The Smart on Crime initiative is in many ways the ultimate expression of my trust in the abilities  and the judgment  of our attorneys on the front lines. And although some have suggested that recent changes in charging and sentencing policies might somehow undermine their ability to induce cooperation from defendants in certain cases, today, I want to make it abundantly clear that nothing could be further from the truth.NoneNoneNoneNoneYour concrete recommendations  that federal prosecutors should prioritize reducing violence, incarceration, and recidivism  are consistent with the aims of the Smart on Crime initiative. The new metrics you propose  such as evaluating progress by assessing changes in local violent crime rates, numbers of federal prisoners initially found in particular districts, and changes in the three-year recidivism rate  lay out a promising roadmap for us to consider. And my pledge to you today is that my colleagues and I will not merely carefully study this critical report  we will use it as a basis for discussion, and a vital resource to draw upon, as we engage in a far-reaching process to develop and codify new success measures  with the aim of cementing recent shifts in law and policy.One of the key points underscored by your report  and emphasized under the Smart on Crime approach  is the need for the Justice Department to direct funding to help move the criminal justice field toward a fuller embrace of science and data. This is something that we  and especially our Office of Justice Programs and Bureau of Justice Assistance  have taken very seriously throughout the Obama Administration. And nowhere are these ideals more fully embodied  or more promisingly realized  than in our Justice Reinvestment Act and Second Chance Act programs.As we speak, the states that participate in Justice Reinvestment are making fundamental policy reforms that aim to reduce unnecessary confinement, save taxpayer dollars, and reinvest funding in strategies proven to enhance community safety. A report issued in January highlighted 17 states that are projected to save $4.6 billion over 10 years. Another study, in June, highlighted seven states that have achieved substantial reductions in three-year recidivism rates. And these successes are notable not only for their magnitude, but for the political consensus that drove them.Thanks to bipartisan support from Congress, funding for the Justice Reinvestment Initiative has more than quadrupled this year. That, on its own, is an extraordinary indication of the power and importance of this work. And this additional funding is allowing us to launch a new challenge grant program  designed to incentivize states to take the next major step in their reform efforts.NoneIn addition to these and other Second Chance awards, our Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention is providing $7 million in Second Chance Act funding to support reentry demonstration programs and other important efforts at the juvenile level. A further $1.8 million will support a new Juvenile Reentry Legal Assistance Program through our partners at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. And well soon be launching a broader partnership with HUD  a partnership rooted in the Pay for Success model championed by the Brennan Center  to focus on finding permanent supportive housing for those returning from incarceration.The Justice Department has transferred $5 million to HUD for this program, which will announce the competition in the coming months. Together, these exciting efforts reaffirm our commitment to strengthening Americas justice system at every level. They underscore our determination to help people get back on the right path. But theyre only the beginning  because, beyond our Smart on Crime reforms and our emphasis on evidence-based practices, I believe the federal government has an even broader and more critical role to play in securing the fundamental promise of equal justice under law.NoneNoneWill we again turn a blind eye to the hard truths that Ferguson exposed, burying these tough realities until another tragedy arises to set them off like a powder keg? Or will we finally accept this mandate for open and honest dialogue, reach for new and innovative solutions, and rise to the historic challenge  and the critical opportunity  now right before us?These questions are not rhetorical. And as we seek to address them, we must take into account the preconceived notions that certain people may bring to interactions with police  preconceptions that may be informed by generations of experience; by the totality of what it has meant to be a person of color in the United States. We must consider corresponding notions that police may bring to interactions with certain communities and individuals. And we must never lose sight of the immense and unyielding difficulties inherent in the law enforcement profession  from the training they receive to the risks these brave men and women incur every time they put on their uniforms; from the dangers they face, and the split-second decisions they often must make, to the anguish of family members who awaken at night to the sound of a ringing telephone  hoping for the best, but fearing tragic news about a loved one out walking the beat.NoneNoneNoneThis is important, and in some cases life-changing, work. But I believe we need to take these efforts even further. Thats why, under the leadership of our COPS Office, the Justice Department is working with major police associations to conduct a broad review of policing tactics, techniques, and training  so we can help the field swiftly confront emerging threats, better address persistent challenges, and thoroughly examine the latest tools and technologies to enhance the safety, and the effectiveness, of law enforcement. Going forward, I will support not only continuing this timely review, but expanding it  to consider the profession in a comprehensive way  and to provide strong, national direction on a scale not seen since President Lyndon Johnsons Commission on Law Enforcement nearly half a century ago.In this ongoing effort, and in so many others  as we seize this important moment, renew our determination to combat crime, and accept the historic opportunities now before us  my colleagues and I will continue to look to the Brennan Center, and each of the leaders in this audience, for guidance; for edification; and for frank and honest advice. We will continue to rely on the experience, and the thoughtful consideration, that you have brought to todays discussion  and to countless others over the past two decades. And we will always be both proud and humbled to count you as partners, and as essential allies, in the considerable work ahead.I want to thank you all  once again  for your leadership, your vision, and your unwavering commitment to the mission we share. I look forward to building on this dialogue in the weeks and months to come. And I am optimistic  despite the challenges we face, and the obstacles we must confront  about where your efforts will take us, and all that we will achieve  together  for the exceptional nation we all love.Thank you.