    WASHINGTON  Nearly 40 members and associates of the Bandido Outlaw Motorcycle Gang (BOMG) were arrested yesterday and today on various firearms and drug-related charges in three judicial districts as part of a coordinated law enforcement effort, announced the Department of Justice and the FBI.      Twenty-eight individuals were charged in the Northern District of Texas in six complaints unsealed today in Dallas with conspiracy to possess and to distribute heroin, methamphetamine and cocaine. One of the defendants was charged with possession of a machine gun. All of the defendants were arrested around the Dallas area, except for one individual, who was arrested in San Francisco today. The defendants will make initial appearances tomorrow in U.S. federal court.     In addition, eight individuals who are members or associates of the BOMG were charged in the District of Colorado with conspiracy, and knowingly possessing with intent to distribute 50 grams or more of methamphetamine and five kilograms or more of cocaine. Six of the individuals were arrested today in the Denver-area, while one defendant was already in state custody and one is at large. According to court documents filed in U.S. District Court in Denver, the BOMG is a self styled outlaw motorcycle organization comprised of more than 2,000 members and associates with more than 90 chapters in the United States, Canada, Europe and elsewhere.     Yesterday, FBI agents and local authorities arrested three San Antonio residents in the Western District of Texas as part of the coordinated takedown. San Antonio BOMG Sergeant-At-Arms Gerardo Gomez Jr., 29, aka Bandido Junior Ray; San Antonio BOMG member Jason Earl Morris, 33, aka Sarge; and Angel Cevallos, 40, were arrested on one charged count of possession with intent to distribute more than 500 grams of cocaine. According to the complaint and supporting affidavit filed in San Antonio, yesterday the defendants were engaged in a drug transaction with undercover agents in which the defendants agreed to sell five kilograms of cocaine for $100,000. The three defendants were arrested by FBI agents after initially fleeing the scene by car. They remain in federal custody.     Indictments and complaints are merely charging documents. Defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.     The charge of possession with intent to distribute more than 500 grams of cocaine carries a mandatory minimum prison sentence of five years and a maximum prison sentence of 40 years, as well as a maximum $5 million fine. The charge of possessing a machine gun carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. If convicted of knowingly possessing with intent to distribute methamphetamine or cocaine, those defendants face a mandatory minimum prison term of 10 years, and a maximum of life in federal prison, as well as up to a $4 million fine.      The Dallas charges are the result of a multi-year investigation into the illicit distribution of drugs and firearms by the BOMG and its affiliated support clubs. The investigation was led by the FBI and the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA).       The Colorado case is being investigated by the FBI and the Denver Metro Gang Task Force.       The San Antonio case is being investigated by the FBI; the DEA; the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; the Texas Department of Public Safety, the Arlington, Texas, Police Department; the Austin, Texas, Police Department; and the Fort Worth, Texas, Police Department. The San Antonio Police Department also assisted in yesterdays arrests.       The cases are being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys from the Northern District of Texas, the Western District of Texas and the District of Colorado.       Questions regarding the Dallas case, including for a complete list of defendants charged, should be directed to Kathy Colvin at 214-659-8600.     Questions regarding the Colorado case should be sent to Jeff Dorschner at 303-454-0243, and questions regarding the San Antonio case should be sent to Daryl Fields at 210-384-7440.