  WASHINGTON  A Mobile, Ala., real estate investor has agreed to plead guilty today for his role in a conspiracy to rig bids and commit mail fraud at public real estate foreclosure auctions in southern Alabama, the Department of Justice announced. None None   Todays charges demonstrate that the Antitrust Division vigorously pursues and prosecutes those who take part in conspiracies to rig bids at real estate foreclosure auctions, said Sharis A. Pozen, Acting Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Department of Justices Antitrust Division. The division is committed to working closely with its law enforcement partners to ensure that these real estate auctions are fair and open so that consumers will benefit from competition.   According to the court documents, between May 2001 and December 2006, Threlkeld conspired with others not to bid against one another at public real estate foreclosure auctions in southern Alabama. After the conspirators designated bidder bought a property at the public auctions, which typically take place at the county courthouse, the conspirators would generally hold a secret, second auction at which each participant would bid the amount above the public auction price he was willing to pay. The highest bidder at the secret, second auction won the property. Threlkeld was also charged with conspiring to commit mail fraud by using the U.S. mail in carrying out the conspiracy to defraud financial institutions by paying potential competitors not to bid competitively in the public auctions for foreclosed properties.   Threlkeld was charged with violating the Sherman Act, which carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $1 million fine for individuals. The maximum fine may be increased to twice the gain derived from the crime or twice the loss suffered by the victim if either amount is greater than the statutory maximum. Threlkeld was also charged with conspiracy to commit mail fraud which carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and a fine in the amount equal to the greatest of $250,000, twice the gross gain the conspirators derived from the crime, or twice the gross loss caused to the victims of the crime by the conspirators.   Todays charges are the latest filed by the department in its ongoing investigation into bid rigging and fraud at public real estate foreclosure auctions in southern Alabama. In addition to todays charges, on Sept. 15, 2011, Allen K. French, Harold H. Buchman and Buchmans company, M & B Builders LLC, were each charged in U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Alabama with one count of bid rigging to obtain selected real estate in southern Alabama at foreclosure auctions. On the same day, M & B Builders was also charged with one count of conspiracy to commit mail fraud. On Oct. 14, 2011, French, Buchman and M & B Builders pleaded guilty to the charges. None None