    The former president and vice president of Osaka, Japan-based Diamond Electric Mfg. Co. Ltd. have agreed to plead guilty for their participation in a global conspiracy to fix prices of ignition coils installed in cars sold in the United States and elsewhere, the Department of Justice announced today. Ignition coils are part of a cars fuel ignition system and release electric energy suddenly to ignite a fuel mixture.     Separate felony charges were filed today in U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan in Detroit against Shigehiko Ikenaga and Tatsuo Ikenaga. According to court documents, from at least as early as July 2003 until at least February 2010, the former executives participated in a conspiracy to rig bids for, and to fix, stabilize and maintain the prices of ignition coils sold to automotive manufacturers for installation in vehicles manufactured in the United States and elsewhere. The automotive manufacturers included Ford Motor Co., Toyota Motor Corp. and Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd.  more commonly known by its brand name, Subaru  and certain of their subsidiaries.     Shigehiko Ikenaga, president of Diamond Electric during the relevant period, agreed to serve 16 months in a U.S. prison. Tatsuo Ikenaga, Diamond Electrics managing director, and then vice president beginning in 2008, agreed to serve 13 months in a U.S. prison. Tatsuo Ikenaga also simultaneously served as president of Diamond Electrics U.S. subsidiary during the relevant period. Additionally, the former executives have each agreed to pay a $5,000 criminal fine and to cooperate with the departments ongoing investigation. Each of the Ikenagas plea agreements is subject to court approval. On Sept. 10, 2013, Diamond Electric pleaded guilty for its involvement in the conspiracy and was fined $19 million.None       Diamond Electric is a manufacturer of ignition coils and was engaged in the sale of ignition coils in the United States and elsewhere. According to the charges, the Diamond Electric executives and their co-conspirators carried out the conspiracy by, among other things, agreeing during meetings and communications to coordinate bids submitted to automobile manufacturers.      Each executive is charged with price fixing and bid rigging in violation of the Sherman Act, which carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $1 million criminal fine for individuals. The maximum fine for an individual may be increased to twice the gain derived from the crime or twice the loss suffered by the victims of the crime, if either of those amounts is greater than the statutory maximum fine.      Including todays charges, 28 individuals and 24 companies have been charged in the governments ongoing investigation into price fixing and bid rigging in the auto parts industry.  None