WASHINGTON  The U.S. District Court for the District of Idaho has entered a consent decree against G&H Dairy LLC., Jesus M. Hurtado, Gilbert M. Hurtado and John J. Gomez to resolve allegations of violations of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Justice Department announced today. The governments action results from a series of inspections by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of G&H Dairys farms from 2009 to 2011. The defendants, who are primarily in the dairy business, also sell cows for slaughter as food. Dairy farmers are required to maintain systems to ensure that their use of animal drugs is safe and conforms with the law.Among other things, they are required to wait a certain period of time before they may release food-producing animals treated with drugs for slaughter.Failure to do so may result in excess drugs in the tissues of these animals, above safe limits. This may harm consumers by causing allergic reactions and by contributing to the spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. None Under the consent decree, the defendants medication practices must be confirmed by the FDA as compliant with the law before G&H may sell cows for slaughter. In addition, the defendants are required to create and maintain documentation to address the problems that the FDA discovered during its inspections. Its important to the health and safety of the American people that our farms adequately monitor and record how they using medications with their food-producing livestock, because failure to do so puts people at risk, said Tony West, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Division of the Department of Justice.Todays consent decree requires G&H Dairy to establish procedures and keep documentation that will help ensure American consumers receive foods that are safe for themselves and their families. The matter was handled by Trial Attorneys Shannon Pedersen and David Sullivan of the Justice Departments Consumer Protection Branch and Assistant Chief Counsel Julie Doam of the Office of the General Counsel, Food and Drug Administration.