  Three members of the violent gang known as the Almighty Latin King and Queen Nation (ALKQN)pleaded guilty today to charges related to their participation in a drive-by shooting and a drug conspiracy, and two other members were sentenced for their roles in a drug conspiracy.  Robert Allen Ramirez, aka "Nesyo," 27, of Big Spring, Texas; Eduardo Daniel Mares, aka "Pitt," 21, of Seminole, Texas; and Gabriel Lee Gonzales, 21, of Fort Stockton, Texas, each pleaded guilty in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas, Lubbock Division, to two counts of using a firearm to commit murder in relation to a drug trafficking crime and one count of a conspiracy to distribute and possess with intent to distribute five kilograms or more of cocaine and 100 kilograms or more of marijuana.  Each defendant faces a maximum statutory sentence of life in prison. U.S. District Judge Sam R. Cummings ordered a pre-sentence investigation with a sentencing date to be scheduled after that investigation is completed.  Luis Nava, aka "Flaco," 25, of Midland, Texas, was sentenced today to 22 years in prison by Judge Cummings. Nava pleaded guilty on Sept. 17, 2009, to a superseding indictment charging him with conspiring to distribute and possess with intent to distribute five kilograms or more of cocaine and 100 kilograms or more of marijuana. Nava has been in custody since his arrest in December 2008.  Michael Conde, aka "Psycho," 24, of Lamessa, Texas, was also sentenced today to 15 years in prison by Judge Cummings. Conde pleaded guilty to a superseding indictment June 29, 2009, charging him with conspiring to distribute and possess with intent to distribute five kilograms or more of cocaine and 100 kilograms or more of marijuana. Conde has been in custody since his arrest in May 2009.  According to court documents, Ramirez, Mares, Gonzales, Nava and Conde admitted that they were members of a conspiracy that included Jose Robledo Nava, aka "Chino;" Reynaldo Nava, aka "Rat;" Marie Chavez, aka "Shorty;" Carol Ann Rivas Nava; Cecily Dominique Juarez; Jesus Martinez, aka "Solid;" David Hellums, aka "Cutthroat;" James Johnathan Cole, aka "Blitz;" John Guzman; Hiluterio Chavez, aka "Zeus;" Guerrero Olivas, aka "Screech;" Eliseo Perez, aka "Wicked;" and others, and that from 2001 until December 2008, they directly or indirectly agreed to distribute, and possess with intent to distribute, cocaine and marijuana.  Ramirez, Mares, Gonzales, Nava and Conde admitted that the overall scope of the conspiracy involved at least five kilograms of cocaine and 100 kilograms of marijuana. Ramirez, Mares, Gonzales, Nava and Conde also admitted that they and their co-defendants intentionally and knowingly possessed with the intent to distribute cocaine and marijuana, and distributed cocaine and marijuana to others. According to the indictment, they acquired the cocaine and marijuana from Mexico and brought it to the South Texas region, where it was packaged, stored and transported to Big Spring, Lubbock and Midland for further distribution.  Ramirez, Mares and Gonzales also admitted to their involvement in a drive-by shooting that occurred in Big Spring on May 4, 2008. Six people were shot, resulting in the deaths of two people, a man and woman who was 26 weeks pregnant.  The case is being investigated by the National Gang Targeting, Enforcement and Coordination Center; the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force; the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration; the FBI; U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement; the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; the El Paso Intelligence Center; U.S. Customs and Border Protection; the U.S. Marshals Service; the Texas Department of Public Safety; the Police Departments of Lubbock, Midland, Houston, San Antonio and Big Spring, Texas; the Lubbock County, Texas, Sheriffs Office; and the Howard County, Texas, District Attorneys office.  Trial Attorneys Cody L. Skipper and Joseph A. Cooley of the Department of Justices Criminal Divisions Gang Unit and Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeffrey R. Haag of the Lubbock, Texas, U.S. Attorneys Office are prosecuting the case.