NoneThe United States has filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia against Quicken Loans Inc. under the False Claims Act for improperly originating and underwriting mortgages insured by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA), the Justice Department announced today. Quicken is a mortgage lender headquartered in Detroit.Those who do business with the United States must act in good faith, including lenders that participate in the FHA mortgage insurance program, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer of the Justice Departments Civil Division. To protect the housing market and the FHA fund, we will continue to hold responsible lenders that knowingly violate the rules.NoneNoneThe governments complaint alleges that Quickens senior management was aware of these and other problems. The complaint alleges that Quickens Divisional Vice President for Underwriting, the second most senior executive in Quickens Operations Department, wrote in an email discussing the value appeal process that I dont think the media and any other mortgage company (FNMA, FHA, FMLC) would like the fact we have a team who is responsible to push back on appraisers questioning their appraised values. In another email, the same Divisional Vice President for Underwriting wrote to a group of Quicken executives stating that 40 percent of the management exceptions on FHAs early payment defaults should not have been granted, adding: we make some really dumb decisions when it comes to client service exceptions. Example, purchase loan we pulled new credit and the client stopped paying on almost everything and the scores fell by 100 points, we [still] closed it. In yet another email discussing an FHA loan, the Operations Director, a senior level executive, explained that the loan was approved based on bastard income, which he described as trying to put some kind of income together that is plausible to the investor even though we know its creation comes from something evil and horrible.NoneThe complaint further alleges that Quicken failed to implement an adequate quality control program to identify deficient loans, and that Quicken failed to report to HUD the loans it did identify. In particular, according to the government's complaint, despite its obligation to report to HUD all materially deficient loans, during the period from September 2007 to December 2011, Quicken concealed its deficient underwriting practices and failed to report a single underwriting deficiency to the agency.As the complaint alleges, Quicken violated HUDs quality standards when obtaining HUD insurance for mortgage loans, said U.S. Attorney John Walsh of the District of Colorado, whose office helped to lead the investigation. Quicken issued hundreds of defective mortgage loans, and left HUD  and the taxpayer  to pay for the loans that defaulted. Quickens alleged fraudulent conduct affected communities nationwide. This case is the latest step in our commitment to hold accountable mortgage lenders who profit by taking advantage of HUD insurance and issuing defective loans that do not meet HUDs standards.Quicken needs to be held accountable for violations of HUD requirements in the origination of FHA loans, as alleged in the complaint, said HUD General Counsel Helen R. Kanovsky. HUD will continue to take action to protect the FHA and American homebuyers.The complaint alleges that Quicken approved loans that should not have been approved and submitted them for FHA insurance, said HUD Inspector General David A. Montoya. The alleged cost to the FHA insurance fund was millions of dollars and hopefully this serves as reinforcement to Quicken that doing the wrong thing really never is worth it.The investigation of this matter was a coordinated effort among HUD-Office of Inspector General, HUD, the U.S. Attorneys Office of the District of Colorado and the Civil Divisions Commercial Litigation Branch. None