A Miami man was arrested today on health care fraud and money laundering charges in connection with an alleged $24 million scheme to defraud Medicare.Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division; U.S. Attorney Wifredo A. Ferrer of the Southern District of Florida; Special Agent in Charge George L. Piro of the FBIs Miami Field Office; Special Agent in Charge Paul Wysopal of the FBIs Tampa Field Office; Special Agent in Charge Perrye K. Turner of the FBIs Houston Field Office; Special Agent in Charge Derrick Jackson of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector Generals (HHS-OIG) Miami Regional Office; and Special Agent in Charge Mike Fields of HHS-OIGs Dallas Regional Office made the announcement.Angel M. Mirabal, 61, of Miami, was arrested on a previously sealed indictment returned by a grand jury in the Southern District of Florida charging him with conspiracy to commit health care fraud and conspiracy to commit money laundering of health care fraud proceeds, as well as 10 substantive money laundering counts.According to the indictment, Mirabal operated Quick Solutions Medical Supplies Inc., a durable medical equipment (DME) supply company located in Houston, Texas. From April 2010 through July 2013, Mirabal allegedly conspired with individuals who operated other DME companies to submit approximately $24 million in fraudulent claims for reimbursement to Medicare. These claims represented that Quick Solutions and others provided DME, such as wound care supplies, to Medicare beneficiaries when, in fact, these items were not medically necessary and were not actually provided. Many of the Medicare beneficiaries who supposedly received DME from Quick Solutions resided hundreds of miles away in Miami. Mirabal and his co-conspirators allegedly used fraudulent shell companies to launder and disburse the proceeds from the health care fraud scheme.An indictment is only an accusation, and a defendant is presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty.This case is being investigated by the FBI and HHS-OIG and was brought as part of the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, under the supervision of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of Florida. This case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Timothy P. Loper of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section.Since its inception in March 2007, the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, now operating in nine cities across the country, has charged nearly 2,000 defendants who have collectively billed the Medicare program for more than $6 billion. In addition, the HHS Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, working in conjunction with the HHS-OIG, are taking steps to increase accountability and decrease the presence of fraudulent providers.None# # #