Combined Total of $79 Million through Partnership with New York County DAs OfficeVice President Joe Biden and Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch today announced $41 million in grant awards to 20 jurisdictions to eliminate or reduce the number of untested sexual assault kits across the country. Todays announcement is being announced as part of an unprecedented partnership with the New York County District Attorneys Office (DANY)  whose own grant program is contributing $38 million to the cause for a total of $79 million to eliminate the backlog reaching 43 jurisdictions in 27 states across the country.Rape kits are an essential tool in modern crime fighting  not only for the victim, but, for the entire community. Studies show we solve up to 50 percent of previously unsolved rapes when these kits are tested. When we solve these cases, we get rapists off the streets. For most survivors, seeing their rapists brought to justice, and knowing that they will not return, brings peace of mind and a sense of closure. The grants were announcing today to reduce the national rape kit backlog will bring that sense of closure and safety to victims while improving community safety, Vice President Biden said.The groundbreaking initiative we are announcing today is part of the Justice Departments longstanding efforts to support survivors of sexual violence and to bring abusers to justice, said Attorney General Loretta Lynch."For anyone who has felt isolated and afraid, for anyone that has lost faith or lost hope as a result of a sexual crime, this is our pledge to you: we will not forget you. We will not abandon you."The National Sexual Assault Kit Initiative, a competitive grant program administered by the Justice Departments Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA), supports the comprehensive reform of jurisdictions approaches to evidence found in sexual assault kits that have never been submitted to a crime laboratory for testing. BJA created the initiative in consultation with the National Institute of Justice (NIJ), Office for Victims of Crime, (OVC), and Office on Violence Against Women (OVW). The goals of the initiative are to create a coordinated community response that ensures just resolution to these cases whenever possible through a victim-centered approach, as well as to build jurisdictions capacity to prevent conditions that lead to high numbers of untested kits. The funding awarded through DANYs program will pay directly for testing kits, and the combined effort between BJA and DANY is projected to achieve testing of approximately 70,000 sexual assault kits. BJA and DANY partnered to reach as many jurisdictions as possible and also to identify jurisdictions where funding could be combined to adequately address kit backlogs.NoneSince 2008, the National Institute of Justice (NIJ) has provided more than $825 million for DNA analysis in crime laboratories and for activities such as research dedicated to strengthening the accuracy and reliability of forensic science.NoneNone 