Assistant Attorney General for National Security John P. Carlin and U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara for the Southern District of New York announced that Wesam El-Hanafi was sentenced today in Manhattan federal court to 15 years in prison for his extensive efforts to support al Qaeda  including financial support and facilitating surveillance of a New York City landmark for an attack  that spanned nearly three years. El-Hanafi was arrested in the United Arab Emirates in April 2010 and transferred to United States custody. On June 10, 2012, El-Hanafi pleaded guilty to one count of providing and attempting to provide material support and resources to al Qaeda, and one count of conspiring to provide material support and resources to al Qaeda, before U.S. District Judge Kimba M. Wood, who also imposed todays sentence.Wesam El-Hanafi was deeply involved in supporting al Qaeda both financially and by facilitating surveillance of a New York landmark to bring an attack to our homeland in our city, said U.S. Attorney Bharara. Todays sentence is a fitting punishment for these crimes and we will continue, with our law enforcement partners, to pursue punishment for those who provide and conspire to provide material support for terrorists.According to various public filings and statements made during public proceedings, including todays sentencing:NoneEl-Hanafi and Hasanoff together funneled approximately $67,000 to terrorist operatives overseas. El-Hanafi and Hasanoff collected some of this money from a third individual who resided in the United States. During this time, both El-Hanafi and Hasanoff used aliases to disguise the source of their money when making cash donations to their terrorist contacts.Moreover, at the direction of his Yemen-based terrorist contacts, El-Hanafi assigned Hasanoff to perform surveillance of locations in the United States, including the New York Stock Exchange in Manhattan, as potential targets of a terrorist attack by al Qaeda. El-Hanafi received Hasanoffs report of his surveillance of the New York Stock Exchange, and sent that report to the terrorist operatives in Yemen.El-Hanafi and Hasanoff also undertook efforts to enable their own travel to engage in jihad in Somalia, Afghanistan, and Iraq. Their al Qaeda contacts would not facilitate El-Hanafis and Hasanoffs travel for jihad, however, because al Qaeda viewed the two men as more valuable for potential attacks on U.S. soil.* * *In addition to his prison term, El-Hanafi, 39, of Brooklyn, New York, was sentenced to 3 years of supervised release. El-Hanafi was also ordered to pay a $200 special assessment fee and forfeiture in the amount of $70,000.Hasanoff pleaded guilty on June 4, 2012, to one count of providing and attempting to provide material support and resources to al Qaeda, and one count of conspiracy to provide material support and resources to al Qaeda. On Sept. 30, 2013, Hasanoff was sentenced to a total term of 18 years in prison, to be followed by a three-year term of supervised release, and was ordered to pay forfeiture in the amount of $70,000.Assistant Attorney General Carlin is grateful for the outstanding investigative work of the FBIs New York-based Joint Terrorism Task Force (JTTF)  which principally consists of special agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and detectives of the New York City Police Department. Assistant Attorney General Carlin would also like to thank the Department of Justices National Security Division and Office of International Affairs, the Kansas City-based JTTF, and the United States Attorneys Office for the Western District of Missouri for their extraordinary assistance in this matter.This case is being handled by the Offices Terrorism and International Narcotics Unit. Assistant U.S. Attorneys John P. Cronan, Aimee Hector, Michael Lockard, and Brendan R. McGuire are in charge of the prosecution, with assistance from Trial Attorney Joseph Kaster of the Counterterrorism Section in the Justice Departments National Security Division.