  Today in federal court in the Eastern District of North Carolina, a jury found Anes Subasic, 35, guilty of conspiring to provide material support to terrorists and conspiring to murder, kidnap, maim and injure persons abroad, announced Thomas G. Walker, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of North Carolina; Lisa Monaco, Assistant Attorney General for National Security; M. Chris Briese, Special Agent-in-Charge of the FBI, Charlotte Division; and John F. Khin, Special Agent-in-Charge, Southeast Field Office, Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS).   Subasic was charged along with seven other defendants in a federal indictment returned on July 22, 2009.   In a separate trial in September 2011, Subasic was found guilty of two counts of unlawful procurement of citizenship.   We must be ever vigilant in our prosecution of those who seek to visit terror on our way of life, stated U.S. Attorney Walker.   This prosecution demonstrates that commitment.NoneNoneNone  Subasic was part of a group of terrorists; some viewed their own country as the enemy. This verdict is the culmination of years of hard work by our Raleigh-Durham Joint Terrorism Task Force, which is composed of our vital law enforcement partners. The JTTF will continue its relentless effort to thwart terrorism in North Carolina, said FBI Special Agent in Charge Briese.   The Defense Criminal Investigative Service is proud to have worked jointly with the Raleigh FBI JTTF in the investigation of Anes Subasic and others indicted of terrorism-related charges, stated DCIS Special Agent in Charge Khin.   Subasic was part of a conspiracy to commit violent acts against U.S. service members and others abroad.   The DCIS remains steadfast in its commitment to protect the warfighter and to thwart efforts of individuals like Subasic.    None None None   In February, 2011, Daniel Boyd, the leader, pleaded guilty to conspiring to provide material support to terrorists and conspiring to murder, kidnap, maim, and injure persons in a foreign country and is currently awaiting sentencing.   Boyds two sons, Zakariya and Dylan Boyd, have also pleaded guilty.   Zakariya Boyd pleaded guilty on June 27, 2011, to conspiring to provide material support to terrorists, and was sentenced to 108 months in prison. Dylan Boyd pleaded guilty on Sept. 14, 2011, to aiding and abetting a conspiracy to provide material support to terrorists and received a 96-month prison sentence.      On Oct. 13, 2011, following a 17-day trial, a jury found Hysen Sherifi, Mohammad Omar Aly Hassan and Ziyad Yaghi guilty.   Sherifi was found guilty of conspiring to provide material support to terrorists; conspiring to murder, kidnap, maim and injure persons in a foreign country; two counts of possessing a firearm in furtherance of a crime of violence; and conspiring to kill a federal officer or employee and was sentenced to 540 months in prison.   Hassan and Yaghi were found guilty of conspiring to provide material support to terrorists and conspiring to murder, kidnap, maim and injure persons in a foreign country.   Hassan received a 180-month prison term and Yaghi received 380 months in prison.      At sentencing, Subasic faces up to 15 years in prison, followed by up to three years supervised release for conspiring to provide material support to terrorists, and up to a term of life in prison followed by up to five years of supervised release for conspiring to murder, kidnap, maim, and injure persons in a foreign country.      The investigation was conducted by the FBI Raleigh-Durham Joint Terrorism Task Force, which includes the FBI, the DCIS, the North Carolina Alcohol Law Enforcement, the Raleigh Police Department, the Durham Police Department and the North Carolina Information Sharing and Analysis Center.   The prosecution was handled by Assistant U.S. Attorney John Bowler of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of North Carolina and Trial Attorney Jason Kellhofer of the Counterterrorism Section in the Justice Departments National Security Division.