The Justice Department announced today that the city of St. Peters, Mo. will pay $80,000 and make changes to its zoning laws to settle a lawsuit alleging that the city violated the federal Fair Housing Act (FHA) and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) when it denied a zoning request to operate a group home for four women with intellectual disabilities. The lawsuit is part of the Justice Departments continuing effort to enforce civil rights laws that require states and municipalities to end discrimination against, and unnecessary segregation of, persons with disabilities. The settlement was filed today and must be approved by the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri. The Fair Housing Act and the Americans with Disabilities Act ensure that municipalities cannot enforce discriminatory land use policies that restrict the rights of their residents to live in the housing of their choice, said Jocelyn Samuels, Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division. This important settlement compensates the individuals who were harmed by the citys practices and will prevent future housing discrimination against the citys residents who have disabilities. NoneThe settlement resolves the United States claims that the city violated the FHA and ADA when it adopted and enforced a facially discriminatory 2,500 foot group-home spacing requirement and when its Board of Adjustment refused, without justification, a variance petition to allow Community Living Inc. (CLI) to operate a group home for four women with disabilities. The complaint also alleges that the city refused to make reasonable accommodations to the citys rules, policies, practices or services that were necessary to afford the residents an opportunity to use and enjoy their home. In addition to providing $80,000 for the residents, the settlement requires that the city: None None None NoneThe case began when a legal guardian for a resident of the group home filed a complaint with HUD after the Board of Adjustment denied the group homes variance petition. HUD referred the complaint to the Justice Department, which conducted an investigation. None None