The last indicted member of the Cowboys gang, a violent street gang that originated in Eastside area of Walterboro, South Carolina, was sentenced today to 20 years in prison in federal court in Charleston, South Carolina. None Dashawn Trevell Brown, aka TOB and Shawny, 24, of Walterboro, South Carolina, was sentenced to 240 months in prison by U.S. District Court Judge David C. Norton. Judge Norton sentenced Brown to three years of supervised release following his prison sentence, and restitution for victims injured as a result of his criminal activity.  None Brown was sentenced for his role in four shootings committed on behalf of his membership as a Cowboys. On May 12, 2011, after an encounter with an individual believed to be a member of a rival gang, Brown fired shots at the victim. The shooting occurred because of an on-going dispute between the Cowboys and the rival gang. Brown was identified by witnesses to the shooting. As a result of this, a retaliatory shooting occurred on May 14, 2011, during which, another innocent bystsander was shot and seriously injured. Brown was also identified as having fired shots during this incident. Second, Brown was sentenced for his role in a June 30, 2013 shooting in the Druid Hills areas of Walterboro. Brown, who was in a vehicle occupied by two other members of the Cowboys, participated in a drive-by shooting of individuals believed to be members of a rival gang. Brown, who fired shots resulting in injuries to the victims arm, days later encountered the victim and told him, I should have killed you. Third, Brown was sentenced for his role in the July 14, 2013 shooting at the Starlite Lounge in St. George. Brown, and other members of the Cowboys, attended a party at the lounge while dressed in Cowboys colors, including displays of red, white, and blue bandanas. While members of the Cowboys were on stage, members of the Cowboys exchanged words with a patron. After they believed they were disrespected by the patron, members of the Cowboys left the club and waited outside. As individuals began to leave the club, Brown and at least four other members of the Cowboys fired guns toward those coming out of the club. As a result of the shooting, at least three victims were shot and injured.  Lastly, Brown was sentenced for his role in a Nov. 6, 2015 attempted murder. Brown, along with co-defendants Khiry Broughton and Quintin Fishburne, attended a drag race outside of Walterboro. After bets were placed, Broughton questioned the results of the race and demanded the winnings, which were held by one of the race drivers. Broughton decided to rob the winner of the race and in so doing retrieved a backpack containing firearms from Fishburnes vehicle. Broughton provided the firearms to Brown and other members of the Cowboys. After the winner refused to provide the money, the winner and another innocent bystander were shot and severely injured. After the shooting occurred, Fishburne, who transported Brown and Broughton, drove Brown and Broughton from the scene to avoid apprehension by the police. Khiry Broughton, Clyde Naquan Hampton, Matthew Rashuan Jones, William Lamont Cox, Bryant Jameek Davis, Zaquann Ernest Hampton, Christopher Sean Brown, and Quintin Fishburne were all sentenced in November for their roles in criminal activity related to the Cowboys. None None The case was prosecuted by Trial Attorney Leshia Lee-Dixon of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section and Special Assistant U.S. Attorney Tameaka A. Legette from the Fourteenth Judicial Circuit Solicitors Office, Bluffton, South Carolina.