A leader of the Almighty Imperial Gangsters Nation pleaded guilty today to participating in a racketeering conspiracy involving murder, attempted murder, aggravated battery, aggravated assault and narcotics distribution.Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, Special Agent in Charge Michael J. Anderson of the FBIs Chicago Division and Special Agent in Charge George L. Piro of the FBIs Miami Division made the announcement.Victor Emmanuel Lopez, aka Magic, 29, of Miami, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Cecelia M. Altonaga of the Southern District of Florida to one count of conspiracy to conduct and participate in the affairs of the Almighty Imperial Gangsters Nation through a pattern of racketeering activity. Sentencing has been scheduled for Jan. 31, 2017.According to admissions made in connection with his plea, Lopez joined the Chicago-area chapter of the Almighty Imperial Gangsters Nation in approximately 2001 and received authorization to initiate a new chapter in South Florida. Lopez admitted that as the leader of the South Florida Imperial Gangsters, in 2006, he directed a fellow member to shoot into a vehicle, resulting in one persons death; in 2011, he ordered the murder of a witness in a state investigation against him; and in 2007, participated in a drive-by shooting of a suspected rival gang member in which he shot a bystander.In addition, Lopez admitted that he and other members of the Almighty Imperial Gangsters Nation earned money for members and financed the gangs activities through trafficking in controlled substances, including cocaine, cocaine base, heroin, ecstasy and marijuana.The FBIs Miami and Chicago Field Offices investigated the case with the Miami-Dade, Florida, Police Department; the City of Miami Police Department; the Chicago Police Department; the Franklin Park, Illinois, Police Department; and the East Chicago Police Department. The U.S. Attorneys Office of the Northern District of Indiana; the State Attorneys Offices of Miami-Dade and Broward County, Florida; the State Attorneys Office in Cook County, Illinois; the Florida Department of Corrections and the Broward County Sheriffs Office assisted with this case. Trial Attorneys Joseph A. Cooley, Rebecca A. Staton and Nicholas J. Regalia of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section are prosecuting the case with the U.S. Attorneys Office of the Southern District of Floridas Forfeiture Section.