  A Detroit federal grand jury returned a one-count indictment against a former top executive of a Japanese manufacturer of automotive parts for his participation in a conspiracy to fix prices of seatbelts, the Department of Justice announced today. None   Todays indictment demonstrates that the Antitrust Division continues to hold accountable executives who collude with their competitors, said Brent Snyder, Deputy Assistant Attorney General for the Antitrust Divisions criminal enforcement program. The division will not tolerate executives participating in  and directing their subordinates to participate in  conspiracies to raise the prices on automotive parts that are essential to the safety of U.S. consumers.   The indictment alleges, among other things, that from at least as early as September 2005 and continuing until June 2009, Nakajima and others attended meetings with co-conspirators and reached collusive agreements to rig bids, allocate the supply and fix the prices of seatbelts sold to the automobile manufacturers. It alleges that Nakajima participated directly in the conspiratorial conduct, and that he directed, authorized and consented to his subordinates participation. None   Including Nakajima, 35 individuals have been charged in the governments ongoing investigation into price fixing and bid rigging in the auto parts industry, 24 of whom have pleaded guilty or agreed to plead guilty. Of those, 22 have been sentenced to serve prison terms ranging from a year and one day to two years. Additionally, 27 companies have pleaded guilty or agreed to plead guilty and have agreed to pay a total of more than $2.3 billion in fines.   Nakajima is charged with price fixing in violation of the Sherman Act, which carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $1 million criminal fine for individuals. The maximum fine may be increased to twice the gain derived from the crime or twice the loss suffered by the victims of the crime, if either of those amounts is greater than the statutory maximum fine. None