A federal grand jury charged Nelash Das, age 25, a citizen of Bangladesh previously residing in Landover Hills, Maryland, today with attempting to provide material support and resources to the Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham (ISIS), a designated foreign terrorist organization; attempting to murder a federal employee; and using and carrying a firearm during and in relation to a crime of violence. The defendant previously had been indicted on the material support charge. The defendant remains detained pending further court proceedings.Acting Assistant Attorney General for National Security Dana J. Boente, Acting U.S. Attorney Stephen M. Schenning for the District of Maryland and Special Agent in Charge Gordon B. Johnson of the FBIs Baltimore Field Office made the announcement.The superseding indictment alleges that from October 2015 to Sept. 30, 2016, Das knowingly attempted to provide material support and resources to a foreign terrorist organization, namely ISIS. The superseding indictment further alleges that Das knew that ISIS is a designated foreign terrorist organization and engages in terrorist activity. The superseding indictment charges Das with attempting to murder a federal employee  an individual who was a member of the uniformed services and a Special Agent with the FBI. The superseding indictment also charges Das with using and carrying a firearm during and in relation to the material support and attempted murder charges. Das is a legal permanent resident.According to court documents, ISIS members and supporters have posted identifying information about U.S. military personnel in hopes that ISIS supporters would carry out attacks against them. Das allegedly planned to kill a U.S. military member in support of ISIS.If convicted, Das faces a maximum sentence of life in prison. NoneActing Assistant Attorney General Boente and Acting U.S. Attorney Schenning commended the FBIs Joint Terrorism Task Force for its work on the investigation and thanked the prosecutors that are handling the matter.