A member of the Aryan Brotherhood of Mississippi (ABM) gang was sentenced to life in prison for his participation in a variety of violent criminal acts, including racketeering conspiracy, murder, kidnapping, conspiracy to possess methamphetamine with intent to distribute and other related offenses. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Felicia C. Adams of the Northern District of Mississippi, Special Agent in Charge Stephen G. Azzam of the Drug Enforcement Administrations (DEA) New Orleans Field Office, Special Agent in Charge Constance Hester of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) New Orleans Field Office, Special Agent in Charge Christopher Freeze of the FBI in Mississippi and Director John Dowdy of the Mississippi Bureau of Narcotics (MBN) made the announcement.Even among criminal organizations, the ABM stands out for its violent and repulsive crimes, said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. That is why we will continue to identify, apprehend and prosecute ABM members across the country until the communities that have been living in fear are free from ABMs grasp.This prosecution is the result of an unprecedented collaboration between the Department of Justice, federal, state and local law enforcement officers targeting a large-scale prison gang involved in violent organized crime throughout the state of Mississippi, said U.S. Attorney Adams. As a result of this collaborative effort, we have effectively dismantled this violent organization and sent a clear message that the United States Attorneys Office and our law enforcement partners have an unwavering commitment to hold those individuals accountable who insist on creating an atmosphere of violence and fear in our communities.The sentencing of this gang member is an example of DEAs relentless pursuit to target organizations that plague and pollute our communities. Because drug trafficking and gang violence isnt confined to one jurisdiction or community, it is important that law enforcement continues to work together to improve the quality of life for the citizens were serve in our communities and neighborhoods, said Special Agent in Charge Azzam. DEAs continued pledge to the people of Mississippi is to continue to work with all our law enforcement partners, to pursue these violent thugs, criminals and drug traffickers.Violence takes a toll on our family and community. The substantial sentence imposed today drives a strong message to violent gang organizations that they will be held accountable for their actions, said Special Agent in Charge Hester. ATF is committed to providing every available resource to combat violent crime and illegal firearm activity. We will continue to collaborate with all of our federal, state and local law enforcement partners in identifying, disrupting and dismantling the violent gangs that prey on our communities.Dismantling organized crime organizations is essential to our society, said Special Agent in Charge Freeze. Violent groups such as the Aryan Brotherhood are an anathema on our society and negatively affect the daily lives of all law abiding citizens. The FBI and our law enforcement partners are dedicated to disrupting and deterring the most significant gangs throughout Mississippi and enhancing the lives of all Mississippians.It is a privilege for the Mississippi Bureau of Narcotics to partner with all of these law enforcement agencies to make Mississippi a safer place, said Director Dowdy. The sentence handed down today insures that this defendant can no longer be a menace to public safety.Eric Glenn Parker, 36, of Forrest County, Mississippi, a member of ABM, was sentenced on Dec. 16, 2016 to serve life in prison by U.S. District Judge Glen H. Davidson of the Northern District of Mississippi. On April 13, 2016, Parker was found guilty by a federal jury of engaging in a racketeering conspiracy, murder and methamphetamine distribution.The ABM is the Mississippi-centered branch of the Aryan Brotherhood, a violent, whites only, prison-based gang with members and associates operating inside and outside of state penal institutions. The ABM is engaged in racketeering activities, including murder, attempted murder, kidnapping, assault, money laundering, firearms trafficking and trafficking in marijuana and methamphetamine, both inside and outside correctional facilities. According to trial evidence, Parker and three co-defendants served at varying times on the ABMs three-member wheel that oversaw and directed ABM activity throughout Mississippi during the conspiracy.According to evidence presented at trial, ABM leaders ordered other gang members to lure an individual to an ABM house so that they could murder him for an unpaid drug debt. ABM gang members kidnapped the victim, beat him severely, and delivered him to Parker. Parker, along with Frank George Owens Jr., his co-defendant at trial, beat the victim to death and delivered the body to a co-defendant, who burned the victims body for days in order to incinerate it. In addition, Parker dealt methamphetamine on behalf of the ABM, which garnered him a leadership position in the gang.Todays sentencing marks the culmination of a 2.5-year investigation into and prosecution of the ABM, which resulted in the conviction of 42 members and associates of the gang. Owens, 44, of DIberville, Mississippi, was convicted along with Parker of engaging in a racketeering conspiracy, murder and conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute at least 500 grams of methamphetamine. On Nov. 2, 2016, Owens was sentenced to life in prison and 120 months for attempted murder.The DEA, ATF, FBI and MBN investigated the case. The U.S. Marshals Service; Federal Protective Service; U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations; Mississippi Highway Patrol; Mississippi Bureau of Investigation; Mississippi Department of Corrections; Harrison County, Mississippi, Sheriffs Office; South Mississippi Metro Enforcement Team; Tupelo, Mississippi, Police Department; North Mississippi Narcotics Unit; Tishomingo County, Mississippi, Sheriffs Office; Lee County, Mississippi, Sheriffs Office; Forrest County, Mississippi, District Attorneys Office; Prentiss County, Mississippi, Sheriffs Office; Jones County, Mississippi, Sheriffs Office; Harrison County, Mississippi, Sheriffs Office; and South Mississippi Metro Enforcement Team provided valuable assistance in the investigation. The Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section and the U.S. Attorneys Offices of the Northern and Southern Districts of Mississippi prosecuted the case.