WASHINGTON Attorney General Eric Holder announcedtodaythe appointmentsof Tony Westto serveasthe Department of JusticesActing Associate Attorney General and Stuart DeleryasActing Assistant Attorney GeneralfortheCivil Division.  Tony andStuart have served the department with professionalism, integrity and dedication, and both bring a wealth of experienceto their new positions, said Attorney GeneralHolder. Im confident they will provide invaluable leadership and will play a critical role in furthering the departments key priorities and fulfilling its traditional missions. West will become Acting Associate Attorney General, the third highest official at the Justice Department, upon the departure of Associate Attorney General ThomasPerrelli. West has served as Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Division sinceApril 2009. In that capacity,Westled the Departments largest litigating division, with a docket including significant national security matters, defending the Affordable Care Act against constitutional challenges, the governments response to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, and leading the departments preemption lawsuits against state immigration laws passed in Arizona, Alabama, South Carolina and Utah. During his time as Assistant Attorney General, West has bolstered the Civil Divisions affirmative civil enforcement efforts in areas such as health care fraud, procurement fraud and mortgage fraud. Since January 2009, the Civil Division has used the False Claims Act to recover over $8.8 billion in taxpayer money lost to fraud and abuse  the largest three-year total in the Departments history. Westhas also emphasized the Civil Divisions primary role in enforcing the nations consumer protection laws and oversaw a reorganization of the Division that led to the creation of the Consumer Protection Branch. Since January 2009, the Divisions efforts to protect consumers from harm have resulted in over 115 criminal convictions and the recovery of criminal and civil penalties and restitution of more than $3.5 billion, which is also a three-year record. In addition, West serves a Co-Chair of the Mortgage Fraud Working Group, the Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities Working Groupand the Consumer Protection Working Group of the Presidents Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force. Prior to serving as Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Division, Westwas a litigation partner at Morrison &Foerster LLP in San Francisco, where he worked from 2001 to 2009. West was a state Special AssistantAttorney General in California from 1999 to 2001,working on matters including identity theft, high-tech crime, antitrust litigation, civil rights and police officer training. From 1994 to 1999, West served as an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the Northern District of California, where he prosecuted child sexual exploitation, fraud, narcotics distribution, interstate theft and high-tech crime.  West first served in the Department of Justice as a Special Assistant to the Deputy Attorney Generalfrom 1993 to 1994. West graduated from Harvard Collegeand received his law degree from Stanford Law School. Delery will assume the role of Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Division following Westsdeparture from theDivision. Since August 2010, Delery has served as Senior Counselor to the Attorney General, focusingon civil and appellate matters, including national security litigation, as well as legal policy issues. As a senior counselor, Delery has served as a member of the Departments Affordable Care Act litigation team. Delery came to the Department in January 2009 andinitiallyserved as Chief of Staff and Counselor to the Deputy Attorney General,advisingthe Deputy Attorney General on significant civil,criminal andnational security matters. Later, Deleryservedas Associate Deputy Attorney General,focusingon civil litigation and appeals, andcoordinatingthe departments preparation of the federal lawsuit against Arizonas immigration law. Before joining the department, Delery was a partner at Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr, LLP in Washington,where he was a member of the Litigation Department and the Appellate and Supreme Court Litigation Practice Group, and aVice Chairof the firms Securities Department. Deleryspractice focused on matters involving securities and other financial frauds, internal corporate investigations and complex litigation in trial courts and on appeal. Delery clerked forU.S. Supreme CourtJustices Sandra Day OConnor and Byron R. White,and for Chief Judge Gerald B.Tjoflatof the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. None