As part of the federal governments ongoing efforts to address unlawful dietary supplements, the Department of Justice announced today criminal cases against three individuals for violations of the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (FDCA) related to purported disease cures. Each of the three individuals was also the subject of a civil case brought by the department, which they have now agreed to settle by entry of consent decrees of permanent injunction.Each of the individuals and companies is alleged to have marketed and sold products as treatments for serious diseases including herpes, cancer, Alzheimers and AIDS, without obtaining approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to distribute such products as drugs.These enforcement actions highlight the departments continued focus on unlawful dietary supplements, including unsupported cures for serious diseases such as cancer, Alzheimers, and herpes, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer, head of the Justice Departments Civil Division. Consumers desperate for help, including Americans facing serious illnesses, sometimes turn to untested substances and forgo proven therapies. The Department of Justice is committed to seeking out those firms that risk public health in favor of profit.NoneNoneNoneJames HillNoneNoneClifford Woods and Clifford Woods LLCNoneNonePrincipal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Mizer thanked the Postal Inspection Service for its thorough investigation of these cases. The government is represented in the three criminal cases by Trial Attorney Ann Entwistle and in the three civil cases by Trial Attorney Daniel Zytnick, both of the Civil Divisions Consumer Protection Branch. The government is also represented in the civil case against Hill by Assistant U.S. Attorney Lacy R. Harwell Jr. of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Middle District of Florida. Deputy Chief Counsel Perham Gorji and Senior Counsel Claudia J. Zuckerman of the Department of Health and Human Services Office of General Counsel  Food and Drug Division provided assistance in these cases. Further assistance was provided by the U.S. Attorneys Offices for the Eastern District of Louisiana, Middle District of Florida, and Central District of California.None