Reaz Qadir Khan, 51, a naturalized U.S. Citizen living in Portland, Oregon, was sentenced today to 87 months in prison by U.S. District Court Judge Michael W. Mosman of the District of Oregon in connection with the May 27, 2009, suicide bomb attack at Pakistans intelligence service (ISI) headquarters in Lahore, Pakistan. The attack killed approximately 30 people and injured some 300 more.Assistant Attorney General for National Security John P. Carlin, Acting U.S. Attorney Billy J. Williams of the District of Oregon and Special Agent in Charge Greg Bretzing of the FBIs Portland Division made the announcement.Khan previously entered a guilty plea admitting that he acted as an accessory after the fact to the crime of providing material support to terrorists. In entering his plea, Khan admitted arranging for the delivery of approximately $2,450 to Maldivian Ali Jaleel, one of the suicide bombers responsible for the May 27, 2009, attack. Khan also admitted to providing advice and financial assistance to Jaleels wives after the bombing, while knowing that providing such assistance would hinder and prevent the apprehension of Jaleels wives and others who may have helped in the attack. The 87-month sentence was jointly recommended by the parties and concludes a lengthy investigation of Khans connection to the attack.With today's sentence, the court held the defendant accountable and made it clear that no community should be subjected to the dangers posed by those seeking to assist violent extremists whether here or abroad, said Acting U.S. Attorney Williams. Today's result would not have been possible without the hard work of the dedicated professionals in the law enforcement and intelligence communities. I look forward to our continued work with Muslim communities in Oregon who are committed to ensuring that all people are safe from the threat of violent extremism.The threads of violent extremism are weaving a path through many American cities, said Special Agent in Charge Bretzing. As in the Khan case, sometimes that path leads to those who are willing to fund activities overseas. In other instances, the path leads to homegrown extremists who are willing to commit heinous acts or to those who inspire them to do so. As the threat becomes more insidious and difficult to track, we rely on our shared community to come forward to help us identify and isolate those who would do harm to our nation. I would ask anyone with information about potential threats to call their local FBI office.This case was investigated by the FBIs Joint Terrorism Task Force. The prosecution was handled by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Ethan D. Knight and Charles F. Gorder Jr.of the U.S. Attorneys Office in the District of Oregon. Trial Attorney David P. Cora from the Counterterrorism Section of the Depart of Justices National Security Division assisted.