The U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee entered a consent decree of permanent injunction against Crown Laboratories Inc. and the firms Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey Bedard, to stop the distribution of unapproved and misbranded drugs, the Department of Justice announced today. The products at issue include urea creams and lotions intended to treat a variety of skin ailments.The Department filed a complaint in the Eastern District of Tennessee on March 1, at the request of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The complaint alleged that the defendants violated the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act by, among other things, introducing unapproved and misbranded drugs into interstate commerce. Specifically, the complaint alleges that defendants sold a series of dermatological creams, despite the absence of FDA approval or a sufficient showing that these products were safe and effective.The public has a right to assume that drugs in the marketplace are safe, effective, have obtained proper approvals, and are labeled with the information necessary to allow for proper use, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Chad Readler of the Justice Departments Civil Division. Where drug manufacturers violate these fundamental requirements, the Department of Justice will continue to work aggressively with the FDA to ensure that the pharmaceutical industry follows the rules. Doing so is necessary to protect American consumers. As detailed in the complaint, Crown manufactures a variety of prescription and OTC drugs including prescription urea cream and lotion. The products referenced in the complaint include Rea Lo (Urea 40 percent) Cream, Rea Lo (Urea 40 percent) Lotion, Rea Lo 39 (Urea 39 percent) Cream, Dermasorb XM Complete Kit (Urea 39 persent cream and moisturizer), and Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 percent and Sulfur 5 percent (Sodium Sulfacetamide). As noted in the complaint, the various urea based products were sold as products intended to treat a series of dermatological conditions, such as dry, rough skin, xerosis, ichthyosis, skin cracks and fissures, dermatitis, eczema, psoriasis, keratosis, and calluses. Sodium Sulfacetamide is intended to treat acne vulgaris, acne rosacea, and seborrheic dermatitis. As products designed to provide dermatological treatment, these drugs required FDA approval for their intended uses  approval that was lacking for all of these products. Distributing unapproved drugs in interstate commerce is a violation of the federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.In conjunction with the filing of the complaint, the defendants agreed to settle the case and to be bound by a permanent injunction. The injunction requires Crown to stop the manufacturing, selling and introducing into interstate commerce any Rea Lo (Urea 40 percent) Cream, Rea Lo (Urea 40 percent) Lotion, Rea Lo 39 (Urea 39 percent) Cream, Dermasorb XM Complete Kit, Sodium Sulfacetamide, or any drug labeled similarly to such drugs and containing the same active ingredient(s), unless and until an application has been filed with the FDA and approved by the agency. In addition, within 20 days after the district courts order, the defendants are required, among other things, to give FDA written notice that they are prepared to destroy all Rea Lo (Urea 40 percent) Cream, Rea Lo (Urea 40 percent) Lotion, Rea Lo 39 (Urea 39 percent) Cream, Dermasorb XM Complete Kit, Sodium Sulfacetamide, and any unapproved drug labeled similarly to such drugs and containing the same active ingredient(s). The government is represented by Trial Attorney Mary M. Englehart of the Civil Divisions Consumer Protection Branch, with the assistance of Associate Chief Counsel for Enforcement Susan Williams of the Department of Health and Human Services Office of General Counsels Food and Drug Division.None