NoneNoneNoneNone       Individuals who evade their tax obligations cheat their country and their fellow citizens, said Kathryn Keneally, Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Tax Division. The Department of Justice is committed to using all of the many available tools to find and prosecute those who hide income and assets in offshore bank accounts, and to pursue the taxes and penalties that are due. None    "Offshore tax evasion is a top priority for IRS-CI, and the facts in this case are clear. Earned income was placed into foreign bank accounts for the purpose of committing offshore tax fraud," said Richard Weber, Chief, IRS-CI. "Through our efforts, we are gaining access to more and more information on institutions and individuals involved in offshore tax fraud, and you can expect us to use all of our enforcement tools to stop this abuse."None      U.S. citizens and residents who have an interest in, signature or other authority over, a financial account in a foreign country with assets in excess of $10,000 are required to disclose the existence of such account on Schedule B, Part III, of their individual income tax returns. Additionally, U.S. citizens and residents must file a Report of Foreign Bank and Financial Reports (FBAR) with the U.S. Treasury disclosing any financial account in a foreign country with assets in excess of $10,000 in which they have a financial interest, or over which they have signature or other authority.       Iazlovsky has agreed to pay a civil penalty in the amount of 50 percent of the high balance of his undeclared account to resolve his civil liability with the IRS for failing to file FBARs. Iazlovsky faces a maximum prison term of three years and a maximum fine of $250,000.       Assistant Attorney General Keneally thanked special agents of IRS-CI, who investigated the case, and Tax Division Trial Attorneys Ellen M. Quattrucci and Christopher S. Strauss, who prosecuted the case, and Assistant U.S. Attorney Sandra R. Brown of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Central District of California, who assisted with the prosecution. NoneNone