Divestiture Prevents a Duopoly in the Provision of Media Contact Databases to Businesses and Other OrganizationsThe Antitrust Division filed a civil antitrust lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia to block the proposed acquisition, and simultaneously filed a proposed settlement that, if approved by the court, would resolve the competitive harm alleged in the lawsuit.Businesses, nonprofits, and other organizations rely on media contact databases to identify journalists and other influencers for public relations purposes. Cision is the largest media contact database provider in the United States through its flagship public relations workflow software suite. PR Newswire is the third-largest media contact database provider in the United States through its Agility workflow software suite and competes directly with Cision to provide media contact databases to customers. According to the departments complaint, GTCRs acquisition of Agility would eliminate one of the two meaningful competitors to Cision in the provision of media contact databases, creating a duopoly in the market and further enhancing Cisions dominant market position. Under the terms of the proposed settlement, GTCR must divest Agility to Innodata Inc., or to another buyer approved by the United States.Media contact databases are important to the public-relations activities of many American businesses and organizations, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Renata B. Hesse, head of the Justice Departments Antitrust Division. Todays settlement protects these customers and preserves competition in the market for media contact databases.GTCRs acquisition of PR Newswire is also being reviewed by the United Kingdoms Competition & Markets Authority (CMA). The department cooperated closely with the CMA throughout the course of its investigation.GTCR is a private equity firm headquartered in Chicago. GTCR owns Cision, a leading public relations workflow software company that had approximately $227 million in U.S. revenues in 2015.UBM is a global events marketing and communications services business headquartered in St. Helier, Jersey. UBM owns PR Newswire, a leading provider of commercial newswire services. PR Newswires 2015 U.S. revenues totaled approximately $209 million.NoneGTCR CISGTCR PFJGTCR Stipulation & OrderGTCR ExplanationGTCR Complaint