  WASHINGTON  Medtronic Inc. of Fridley, Minn., has agreed to pay the United States $23.5 million to resolve allegations that it violated the False Claim Act by using physician payments related to post-market studies and device registries as kickbacks to induce doctors to implant the companys pacemakers and defibrillators, the Justice Department announced today.      Post-market studies are intended to assess the clinical performance of a medical device or drug after that device or drug has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration. Registries are collections of data maintained by a device manufacturer concerning its products that have been sold and implanted in patients.  The United States contends that Medtronic caused false claims to be submitted to Medicare and Medicaid by using two post-market studies and two device registries as vehicles to pay participating physicians illegal kickbacks to induce them to implant Medtronic pacemakers and defibrillators.   Although Medtronic collected data and information from participating physicians, each of the studies and registries required a new or previous implant of a Medtronic device in each patient, and in each case Medtronic paid participating physicians a fee ranging from approximately $1,000 to $2,000 per patient.   The United States contends that Medtronic solicited physicians for the studies and registries in order to convert their business from a competitors product and/or persuade the physicians to continue using Medtronic products.   NoneNoneNoneNone  Todays settlement highlights one of the key purposes of the Anti-Kickback law  to ensure that the judgment exercised by health care providers in treating Medicare and Medicaid patients is not influenced by unlawful payments, said Benjamin Wagner, U.S. Attorney for Eastern District of California.      Patients trust that decisions to implant certain pacemakers or other medical devices are based on their own health interests and not influenced by kickbacks, said Daniel R. Levinson, Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services.Companies distorting medical decision-making through kickbacks can expect that OIG investigators and our law enforcement partners will actively investigate and prosecute such unlawful conduct.None  This resolution is part of the governments emphasis on combating health care fraud and another step for the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT) initiative, which was announced by Attorney General Eric Holder and Kathleen Sebelius, Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services in May 2009. The partnership between the two departments has focused efforts to reduce and prevent Medicare and Medicaid financial fraud through enhanced cooperation. One of the most powerful tools in that effort is the False Claims Act, which the Justice Department has used to recover nearly $6.5 billion since January 2009 in cases involving fraud against federal health care programs. The Justice Departments total recoveries in False Claims Act cases since January 2009 are more than $8.5 billion.  This settlement was the result of an investigation by the Justice Departments Civil Division, the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Minnesota, the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of California, the Office of Inspector General at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the FBI.