The former president of Port Arthur Chemical and Environmental Services, LLC (PACES) has pleaded guilty in federal court to occupational safety crimes which resulted in the death of an employee, announced Ignacia S. Moreno, Assistant Attorney General of the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division and John M. Bales, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Texas.NoneBowmans actions showed a preference for profit above the safety of his employees, putting them and the public in life threatening situations by not properly identifying the dangerous materials PACES was handling, said Assistant Attorney General Moreno. The Justice Department will continue to vigorously enforce laws enacted for the protection of human health and the environment.In this day and age, it seems inconceivable that workers would be exposed to the level of danger that was routine at PACES, said U.S. Attorney Bales. Mr. Bowmans actions as the leader of the company were more than just cavalier, they were criminal and he is being held to account. We continue to grieve for the needless loss of life and the pain and suffering of Mr. Sutters family and friends. This investigation and prosecution is the result of an excellent combined effort of the identified agencies and I am grateful for their hard work.The plea agreement reached today sends a strong signal to all who would illegally transport hazardous materials, said Max Smith, regional Special Agent-in-Charge, U.S. Department of Transportation, Office of Inspector General. Working with our law enforcement and prosecutorial colleagues, we will continue our efforts to ensure safety in the transport of these materials and vigorously pursue those who violate the law.Laws regarding the safe and legal handling of hazardous materials are in place for a reason  to save lives, said Ivan Vikin, Special Agent in Charge of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agencys (EPA) criminal enforcement program in Texas. The defendant admitted that his actions directly led to the death of one of his employees. This plea demonstrates that EPA and its partner agencies, the Texas Commission on Environmental Qualitys Environmental Crimes Unit and the Department of Transportations Office of the Inspector General, will prosecute anyone whose actions place the public at risk.NonePACES production operations, the disposal of hydrogen sulfide wastewater, and ensuring implementation of employee safety precautions. In some cases, Bowman personally handled the investigation of work-related employee injuries, directed the transportation of PACES wastewater, and determined what safety equipment could be purchased or maintained. In the cases at issue, hazardous materials were transported illegally with false documents and without the required placards. Most importantly, the workers were not properly protected from exposure to hazardous gases. The exposure resulted in the deaths of two employees, Joey Sutter and Charles Sittig, who were truck drivers, at the PACES facility on Dec. 18, 2008, and Apr. 14, 2009. Placarding is critical to ensure the safety of first responders in the event of an accident or other highway incident. Bowman and PACES were indicted by a federal grand jury on July 18, 2012.NoneThe case was prosecuted by the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of Texas and the Environmental Crimes Section of the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division.