Two members of the Mara Salvatrucha 13, or MS-13, street gang were sentenced today for their participation in violent crimes committed on behalf of the gang.Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Sally Quillian Yates of the Northern District of Georgia, Special Agent in Charge Brock D. Nicholson of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations (ICE HSI) in Atlanta and Special Agent in Charge J. Britt Johnson of the FBIs Atlanta Field Office made the announcement.U.S. District Judge Richard W. Story of the Northern District of Georgia sentenced the following defendants today:Emmanual Hidalgo, aka Scooby, 25, of Chamblee, Georgia, pleaded guilty to engaging in a RICO conspiracy and use of a firearm in relation to a crime of violence on Aug. 2, 2013, and was sentenced to 25 years in prison to be followed by five years of supervised release; andEdwin Menjivar, aka Vago, and Chilly Willy, 33, of Norcross, Georgia, pleaded guilty to engaging in a RICO conspiracy and committing a violent crime in aid of racketeering on June 7, 2013, and was sentenced to 11 years in prison to be followed by three years of supervised release.According to information presented in court and admitted to by the defendants, MS-13 is a violent international gang that originated in Central America. By 2005, MS-13 had established a presence in the Atlanta-area, staking out strongholds in Gwinnett and DeKalb Counties, which they defended with violence. Members of MS-13 attacked suspected rival gang members, and robbed civilians and area businesses. The defendants sentenced today admitted involvement in the following crimes:This case is being investigated by ICE HSI and the FBI, with assistance from the Gwinnett County Police Department and DeKalb County Police Department. This case was prosecuted by Trial Attorney Joseph K. Wheatley of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Paul R. Jones and Kim S. Dammers of the Northern District of Georgia.