A federal grand jury in Phoenix, Arizona, returned a three-count indictment against Eric Scott Kindley, 49, a prison transport officer, for crimes related to his sexual assaults of a female in his custody, and using his firearm in furtherance of these assaults.Counts One and Two of the indictment charge Kindley with committing civil rights offenses that include both the use of a dangerous weapon and aggravated sexual abuse. Count Three charges Kindley with knowingly possessing a firearm in furtherance of these crimes of violence.This indictment stems from Kindleys arrest in Stockton, California on June 1, 2017, in connection with a criminal complaint filed in the District of Arizona. According to arrest paperwork, Kindley operates Group 6, LLC doing business as Special Operations Group 6, a company that local jails throughout the country hire to transport individuals who have been arrested on out-of-state warrants. The probable cause affidavit associated with the criminal complaint alleged that from January through May of this year, Kindley engaged in sexual misconduct in his Dodge Caravan with three different female prisoners during three different transports. The transports were from California to Arizona, Alabama to Arizona, and Mississippi to New Mexico. In each instance, the victim was handcuffed and restrained, and taken to secluded locations where Kindley sexually assaulted her. All the while, Kindley threatened each victim with his firearm and warned her that he will get away with his conduct because no one will believe her.Following Kindleys arrest in the Eastern District of California, the court ordered that Kindley be detained and transported to Arizona for further proceedings. Kindley is currently in custody.This investigation remains ongoing. Anyone with additional information is encouraged to call the Phoenix Division of the FBI at (623) 466-1999, or can email the Criminal Section of the Civil Rights Division at the U.S. Department of Justice at Prisoner.Transfer@usdoj.gov.Kindley faces a maximum of life in prison if convicted of the crimes charged, and a mandatory minimum of five years in prison for use of the firearm.An indictment is merely a formal accusation of criminal conduct, and Kindley is presumed innocent unless proven guilty.This case is being investigated by the Phoenix Division of the Federal Bureau Investigation and is being prosecuted by Special Litigation Counsel Fara Gold and Trial Attorney Maura White of the Criminal Section of the Civil Rights Division of the U.S. Department of Justice and Assistant United States Attorney Abbie Broughton Marsh of the District of Arizona.