  Miami residents Jose and Denisse Martinez were each sentenced today to three years in prison for their role in running a Canton, Mich.,-based drug infusion clinic designed to defraud Medicare, announced the Departments of Justice and Health and Human Services (HHS). U.S. District Court Judge Victoria Roberts also ordered Jose and Denisse Martinez to pay $649,000 in restitution, jointly with co-defendants, and to each serve three years of supervised release following their prison terms.NoneNone  According to court documents, Jose Martinez opened RDM Centers Inc., a medical clinic purporting to specialize in providing injection and infusion services to Medicare beneficiaries, in September 2006. Jose Martinezs then-wife, Denisse Martinez, managed and operated the clinic. According to court documents, the Martinezes came to Detroit from Miami for the sole purpose of committing Medicare fraud.  In their pleas, both defendants acknowledged that they hired Dr. Alan Silber and other employees to work at RDM Centers in order to create the appearance that the clinic was a legitimate health care facility providing necessary services to patients.None   Denisse Martinez admitted in her plea that, despite having no medical training, she completed the clinics patient records by filling in, among other things, the "diagnosis" and "treatment" sections of the patient charts, which were then provided to Dr. Silber for his signature.  According to information contained in the plea documents, Medicare beneficiaries were not referred to RDM Centers by their primary care physicians, or for any other legitimate medical purpose, but rather were recruited to come to the clinic through the payment of kickbacks by co-defendant William Reeves. In exchange for their kickbacks, the Medicare beneficiaries would visit the clinic and sign false documents indicating that they had received the services billed to Medicare. Kickbacks came in the form of cash and prescriptions for controlled substances.  Jose Martinez stated in his plea that he provided cash to Reeves to use for the kickback payments to beneficiaries. Reeves recruited the Medicare beneficiaries from impoverished neighborhoods in central Detroit and drove them approximately 30 miles to RDM Centers. Denisse Martinez stated in her plea that she understood the patients at the clinic were induced to visit RDM Centers through the payment of kickbacks. Jose and Denisse Martinez also admitted to being aware that certain Medicare beneficiaries demanded that they be provided prescription drugs, including Vicodin, in exchange for their participation in the fraudulent scheme and that these drugs were in fact provided.  Between approximately November 2006 and March 2007, the Martinezes and their co-conspirators filed $970,631 in false and fraudulent claims with the Medicare program. According to court documents, Medicare paid more than $649,000 of those false claims.  Co-defendants Silber and Reeves were convicted by a federal jury on April 2, 2010, for their roles in the fraudulent scheme. Sentencing is scheduled for Aug. 6, 2010.None  Todays result was announced by Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Criminal Division; U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Michigan Barbara L. McQuade; Special Agent in Charge Andrew G. Arena of the FBIs Detroit Field Office; and Special Agent in Charge Lamont Pugh III of the HHS Office of Inspector Generals (OIG) Chicago Regional Office.  The case was prosecuted by Special Assistant U.S. Attorney Thomas Beimers from the Eastern District of Michigan as well as Senior Trial Attorney John K. Neal and Trial Attorney Benjamin Singer of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section. The case was investigated by the FBI and HHS-OIG, and was brought as part of the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, supervised by the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of Michigan.  Since their inception in March 2007, Strike Force operations in seven districts have obtained indictments of more than 500 individuals who collectively have falsely billed the Medicare program for approximately $1.1 billion. In addition, HHSs Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, working in conjunction with the HHS-OIG, are taking steps to increase accountability and decrease the presence of fraudulent providers.None