Three Miami, Florida-area home health agency owners were charged in an indictment unsealed yesterday for their alleged participation in a health care fraud scheme involving a now-defunct home health agency in Miami.Acting Assistant Attorney General John P. Cronan of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Benjamin G. Greenberg of the Southern District of Florida, Special Agent in Charge Robert F. Lasky of the FBIs Miami Field Office and Special Agent in Charge Shimon R. Richmond of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector Generals (HHS-OIG) Miami Regional Office made the announcement.Ailin Consuelo Rodriguez Sigler, 39; Zoila C. Rios, 57; and Tomas A. Rodriguez, 66, were charged in an indictment filed in the Southern District of Florida with one count of conspiracy to commit health care fraud and wire fraud, and three counts of health care fraud. Sigler, Rios and Rodriguez were arrested yesterday morning and appeared yesterday afternoon before U.S. Magistrate Judge Alicia M. Otazo-Reyes.The indictment alleges that from approximately January 2011 through November 2014, Sigler, Rios and Rodriguez, owners of Florida Patient Care Corp. of Miami, Florida, were involved in a fraudulent scheme whereby they agreed with the owners and operators of multiple home health therapy staffing companies and others to bill Medicare for services that were medically unnecessary, not eligible for Medicare reimbursement, or were never provided. According to the indictment, Sigler, Rios, Rodriguez and their co-conspirators allegedly caused the submission of false and fraudulent claims to Medicare for home health therapy care, and physical and occupational therapy services purportedly provided by Florida Patient Care Corp.An indictment is merely an allegation and all defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law. This case was investigated by the FBI and HHS-OIG and was brought as part of the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, supervised by the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of Florida. Fraud Section Trial Attorney Yisel Valdes is prosecuting the case.The Fraud Section leads the Medicare Fraud Strike Force. Since its inception in March 2007, the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, now operating in nine cities across the country, has charged nearly 3,500 defendants who have collectively billed the Medicare program for more than $12.5 billion. In addition, the HHS Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, working in conjunction with HHS-OIG, are taking steps to increase accountability and decrease the presence of fraudulent providers.