  The Department of Justice (DOJ), in collaboration with the Department of Education (ED), today released a school discipline guidance package that will assist states, districts and schools in developing practices and strategies to enhance school climate, and ensure those policies and practices comply with federal law. Even though incidents of school violence have decreased overall, many schools are still struggling to create positive, safe environments. Schools can improve safety by making sure that climates are welcoming, and that responses to misbehavior are fair, non-discriminatory, and effective.    Each year, significant numbers of students miss class due to suspensions and expulsionseven for minor infractions of school rulesand students of color and with disabilities are disproportionately impacted. The guidance package provides resources for creating safe and positive school climates, which are essential for boosting student academic success and closing achievement gaps.   "A routine school disciplinary infraction should land a student in the principal's office, not in a police precinct," said Attorney General Eric Holder. "This guidance will promote fair and effective disciplinary practices that will make schools safe, supportive, and inclusive for all students. By ensuring federal civil rights protections, offering alternatives to exclusionary discipline, and providing useful information to school resource officers, we can keep America's young people safe and on the right path."   The resource package consists of four components: None None None None   Effective teaching and learning cannot take place unless students feel safe at school, said U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan. Positive discipline policies can help create safer learning environments without relying heavily on suspensions and expulsions. Schools also must understand their civil rights obligations and avoid unfair disciplinary practices. We need to keep students in class where they can learn. These resources are a step in the right direction. None None None