The Justice Department announced today the filing of a lawsuit with the Executive Office for Immigration Review against Louisiana Crane Company LLC (Louisiana Crane), which is headquartered in Eunice, Louisiana. The complaint alleges that Louisiana Crane violated the Immigration and Nationality Acts (INA) anti-discrimination provision by creating hurdles for immigrants during the employment eligibility verification process because of their citizenship status. Specifically, the complaint states that, from at least January 2013 until at least September 2013, Louisiana Crane required employees who it believed to be non-U.S. citizens to present specific documentation for the Form I-9 and/or E-Verify, but allowed believed to be U.S. citizens the flexibility to present a variety of documents. The INAs anti-discrimination provision prohibits employers from discriminating against people with permission to work in the United States because of their citizenship status. The law protects people who have permission to work from facing discriminatory obstacles during employment eligibility verification, said Molly Moran, Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division. It is important that all people who have permission to work in the United States face an equal playing field when proving their work authorization.The Office of Special Counsel for Immigration-Related Unfair Employment Practices (OSC) is responsible for enforcing the anti-discrimination provision of the INA. Among other things, the statute prohibits citizenship status and national origin discrimination in hiring, firing, or recruitment or referral for a fee; unfair documentary practices; retaliation; and intimidation. None Applicants or employees who believe they were subjected to different documentary requirements based on their citizenship status, immigration status, or national origin, or discrimination based on their citizenship status, immigration status, or national origin in hiring, firing, or recruitment or referral for a fee should contact OSCs worker hotline for assistance.