Former Hancock County Sheriffs Deputy Mark A. Cowden, 51, of Weirton, West Virginia, was sentenced today to 18 months in prison for using excessive force against an arrestee. Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta, head of the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division, and Acting U.S. Attorney Betsy Steinfeld Jividen of the Northern District of West Virginia made the announcement.Following a five-day trial before U.S. District Judge Frederick P. Stamp Jr. of the Northern District of West Virginia, a jury found Cowden guilty of deprivation of constitutional rights under color of law. Evidence presented at trial established that Cowden, who was then serving as a lieutenant with the Hancock County Sheriffs Office, used excessive force on an arrestee in handcuffs in the lobby of the sheriffs office in January 2015. Jurors were shown evidence that Cowden forced the arrestee face-first into a brick wall, slammed the arrestees head into the wall and then punched the arrestee in the back of the head with a closed fist. The entire incident was captured by video surveillance.The defendant abused his power as a law enforcement official, using excessive force to harm a person in his custody, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Gupta. Actions like these violate federal law and erode public trust. This conviction and sentence send a clear message that the Justice Department will aggressively prosecute officer misconduct and protect the integrity of our justice system.Former deputy Cowdens prosecution and conviction by a jury of his peers, the sentence imposed by the court and the fact that he will never serve another day as a police officer, reinforces to the people of West Virginia the seriousness of the law enforcement communitys commitment to police its own and to remain accountable to the public whom they have sworn to serve and protect, said U.S. Attorney Steinfeld Jividen. The unlawful actions of this defendant undermine the character and reputation of the members of our law enforcement community, who follow their training and who strive to promote a culture of fairness, professionalism and respect for the law in their dealings with every individual  regardless of that persons alleged actions.The case was investigated by the FBI. Assistant U.S. Attorney Jarod J. Douglas of the Northern District of West Virginia and Trial Attorney Nicholas Murphy of the Civil Rights Divisions Criminal Section prosecuted the case.