The Justice Department reached an agreement today with Powerstaffing Inc., a temporary staffing agency based in Edison, New Jersey. The agreement resolves allegations that Powerstaffings North Bergen, New Jersey, office discriminated against work-authorized non-U.S. citizens in violation of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA).The departments investigation found that from June 20, 2014, until at least Dec. 15, 2015, Powerstaffing had a pattern or practice of requesting specific immigration documents from non-U.S. citizens for the Form I-9 and E-Verify processes. In contrast, Powerstaffing allowed U.S. citizens to present whichever valid documents they wanted to present to prove their work authorization. Under the INA, all workers, including non-U.S. citizens, must be allowed to choose whichever valid documentation they would like to present from the lists of acceptable documents to prove their work authorization, such as a drivers license and unrestricted social security card. It is unlawful for an employer to limit employees choice of documentation because of their citizenship or immigration status.Upon learning of the departments investigation, Powerstaffing promptly re-trained its staff on proper Form I-9 and E-Verify practices. Among other things, the settlement agreement requires Powerstaffing to pay $153,000 in civil penalties, be subject to department monitoring and review its hiring policies.All employers should ensure that when creating Form I-9 and E-Verify compliance plans, they fully understand the relevant rules so that they dont discriminate against workers based on their citizenship status, immigration status or national origin, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta, head of the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division. The department applauds Powerstaffing for its prompt action to address and resolve this issue.NoneNoneApplicants or employees who believe they have been subjected to: different documentary requirements based on their citizenship, immigration status or national origin; or discrimination based on their citizenship, immigration status or national origin in hiring, firing or recruitment or referral should contact OSCs worker hotline for assistance.None