None     With the signing of this memorandum of understanding, we reaffirm that the United States and Malaysia share a robust commitment to protecting our citizens from criminal activities that transcend jurisdictions, cross international borders and span across the globe, said Attorney General Eric Holder. This agreement encourages direct cooperation between key authorities and law enforcement officials, allowing our two nations to more effectively  and more collaboratively  respond to the evolving transnational challenges we must confront. Im confident that it will strengthen our ability to safeguard our citizens and bring dangerous criminals to justice.     Under the MoU, law enforcement officials from both countries will be able to share information in order to prevent and investigate transnational crime including human trafficking, drug trafficking, terrorism, money laundering, cybercrimes and organized crime. The MoU encourages expanded direct and informal cooperation among law enforcement officers in both countries to assist in investigations. In addition, the MoU will enhance capacity-building efforts through training, consultations and exchanges. Information will not be shared where it is not legally permitted by either country.      The MoU is also part of a larger picture of growing cooperation between the U.S. and Malaysia in a range of areas from law enforcement to trade, from educational and cultural exchanges to bilateral dialogue.     After the MoU signing ceremony, Attorney General Holder met with the Prime Minister of Malaysia Dato Sri Najib Tun Abdul Razak.     Earlier today, Attorney General Holder met with with U.S. embassy personnel and then spoke to sessions and magistrate court judges, prosecutors, government officials and the Malaysian Bar Council about their ongoing efforts to hold criminals accountable and protect the civil liberties of all citizens. Attorney General Holder will meet with local law enforcement before travelling to Singapore for meetings with the U.S. Ambassador to the Republic of Singapore David Adelman and local law enforcement counterparts.   None