None   The sentencing was announced by Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Neil H. MacBride of the Eastern District of Virginia, U.S. Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein of the District of Maryland, Assistant Director James W. McJunkin of the FBIs Washington Field Office and Special Agent in Charge Richard McFeely of the FBIs Baltimore Field Office.   Matthews, 46, of Dunn Loring, Va., also was ordered by U.S. District Judge Liam OGrady to forfeit $7.9 million, which represented the proceeds of the mortgage fraud schemes.   In addition, Judge OGrady ordered Matthews to pay $5,055,250 in restitution to his victims, including three lending entities and 12 private investors, and to serve five years of supervised release following his prison term.  Matthews pleaded guilty on July 15, 2011, in U.S. District Court in the Eastern District of Virginia to one count of bank fraud and one count of wire fraud.   Matthews was charged with bank fraud on Nov. 17, 2010, in an indictment filed in the District of Maryland and charged with wire fraud on Feb. 17, 2011, in an indictment filed in the Eastern District of Virginia.   In his guilty plea, Matthews admitted that between November 2005 and May 2011, he orchestrated at least three mortgage fraud schemes in which he used straw borrowers with good credit scores to apply for and obtain nearly $11.5 million in fraudulent loans relating to three northern Virginia residential properties.   Matthews did so by causing lenders to receive false and inflated income information about the straw borrowers, and Matthews submitted forged and fraudulent documentation to lenders purporting to verify that false information.   After attempting to refinance the loans and forestall foreclosure, Matthews ultimately defaulted on the loans for each of the three properties.   According to court documents, from approximately September 2006 through July 2011, Matthews also engaged in a fourth, related scheme to obtain more than $1 million in fraudulent loans from at least 11 residents of Maryland and Virginia.   Matthews obtained the loans by promising those individuals high rates of return over short periods of time in exchange for money that Matthews claimed he would invest in various property ventures.   Matthews later defaulted on each of those loans, generally paying back no more than 10 percent of the borrowed amounts.   Matthews perpetrated his schemes through various purported real estate entities, including American Investments Real Estate Corporation (AIREC), AIREC Realty, Kibra Construction, Ezana Corporation and Farmville Group LLC.   According to court documents, Matthews continued his criminal behavior after his arrest and while under court supervision.   In December 2010, Matthews mailed $1,000 to known witnesses he had been ordered not to contact, and in March 2011, Matthews filed a fraudulent bankruptcy petition using an alias.   Similarly, in December 2010 and May 2011, Matthews submitted fraudulent documents to one of the lenders for his northern Virginia properties in which he forged the straw purchasers signature without authorization.   In June 2011, Matthews was arrested and detained for these violations of his pretrial release conditions. NoneNone