  WASHINGTON - A federal court in Tampa, Fla., has permanently barred Daniel Prewett from preparing tax returns for others, the Justice Department announced today. The court also barred Prewett from helping customers hide income offshore to avoid taxes, and from promoting other tax-dodging schemes. The court has also enjoined Prewetts wife, Elizabeth George; former Prewett employees Frances Carlson, Elsie Chouinard and Natalie Swaney; and Prewetts three tax preparation businesses, listed below. The injunctions against Chouinard and George permit them to continue preparing tax returns, but bar them from certain specified conduct when they do so.The individual defendants agreed to the injunctions.None  In late 2006, Prewett was arrested on federal charges related to cocaine distribution and money laundering. A jury convicted Prewett and he was given an 18-year sentence last June.  According to the injunction complaint, Prewett and the other defendants used a number of schemes to under-report customers tax liabilities, including helping customers set up fictitious domestic businesses to disguise fraudulent business deductions for bogus business expenses and personal assets, such as motorcycles, ATVs and jet skis. According to the complaint, one customer  a dentist  used the defendants scheme to claim fraudulent deductions for the cost and operational expenses of his $781,000 47-foot yacht, which he used solely for his personal pleasure. The defendants schemes cost the U.S. Treasury more than $130 million dollars, according to the complaint.None  Injunction Details   Defendant  Date Enjoined  Daniel Prewett  May 1, 2009  Natalie Swaney  January 28, 2009  Frances Carlson  January 28, 2009  Elsie Chouinard  May 1, 2009  Elizabeth George  May 1, 2009  JH Investment Services, Inc.  April 24, 2008  JH Accounting  April 24, 2008  Simple Financial Solutions  April 24, 2008  John A. DiCicco, Acting Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Justice Departments Tax Division, thanked trial attorney Grayson Hoffman, who handled the case, and Ricky Poole and Heather Walters-Cole, revenue agents with the IRSs Small Business / Self-Employed Division, who conducted the investigation.None 