None TRW Deutschland has agreed to pay a $5.1 million criminal fine and to cooperate with the departments ongoing investigation. The plea agreement is subject to court approval. By agreeing to fix the prices of seatbelts, airbags and steering wheels, the conspirators eliminated competition for occupant safety parts in cars sold to U.S. consumers, said Scott D. Hammond, Deputy Assistant Attorney General of the Antitrust Divisions criminal enforcement program. As a result of the divisions close work with its law enforcement partners, more than $785 million in criminal fines have been imposed in this ongoing investigation.None According to court documents, the defendants involvement in the conspiracy to fix prices of seatbelts, airbags and steering wheels lasted from January 2008 until at least June 2011. The department said that the TRW Automotive subsidiary and its co-conspirators carried out the conspiracy by agreeing, during meetings and conversations, to allocate the supply of seatbelts, airbags and steering wheels and sold the occupant safety parts at noncompetitive prices to automakers in the United States and elsewhere. Including TRW Deutschland, seven companies and 10 individuals have been charged in the departments ongoing investigation into price fixing and bid rigging in the auto parts industry. Furukawa Electric Co. Ltd, DENSO Corp., Yazaki Corp., G.S. Electech Inc., Fujikura Ltd. and Autoliv Inc. pleaded guilty and were sentenced to pay a total of more than $785 million in criminal fines. Additionally, seven of the individuals  Junichi Funo, Hirotsugu Nagata, Tetsuya Ukai, Tsuneaki Hanamura, Ryoki Kawai, Shigeru Ogawa and Hisamitsu Takada  have been sentenced to pay criminal fines and to serve jail sentences ranging from a year and a day to two years each. Makoto Hattori and Norihiro Imai have pleaded guilty and await sentencing. Kazuhiko Kashimoto is scheduled to plead guilty on Aug. 22, 2012. TRW Deutschland is charged with price fixing in violation of the Sherman Act, which carries a maximum penalty of a $100 million criminal fine for corporations. The maximum fine may be increased to twice the gain derived from the crime or twice the loss suffered by the victims of the crime, if either of those amounts is greater than the statutory maximum fine. None