The Justice Department announced today that Plaza Home Mortgage Inc. (Plaza) of San Diego will pay $3 million to aggrieved borrowers as part of a settlement to resolve allegations that it engaged in a pattern or practice of discrimination on the basis of race and national origin. The settlement also requires Plaza to establish race- and national origin-neutral standards for the assessment of broker fees, monitor its wholesale mortgage loans for potential disparities based on race and national origin, conduct fair lending training and continue to operate a community enrichment program designed to address the lack of affordable housing and lending products in minority and underserved communities nationwide. None Todays settlement demonstrates that the Civil Rights Division is committed to ensuring that all lenders, including wholesale lenders, comply with the fair lending laws, said Jocelyn Samuels, Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division. We commend Plaza for working cooperatively with the Justice Department in reaching an appropriate resolution of this case. The lawsuit originated from a 2011 referral by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division. The proceeds of the settlement will be used to compensate the African-American and Hispanic victims of Plazas alleged discrimination. The proposed settlement provides for an independent administrator to contact and distribute payments at no cost to borrowers whom the Justice Department identifies as victims. Borrowers who are eligible for compensation will be contacted by the administrator. The department will make a public announcement and post contact information on its website once the administrator begins contacting victims. It is patently wrong for a lending institution to require African-American and Hispanic homebuyers to pay more for their mortgages than white borrowers, said Laura Duffy, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of California. We are happy to be able to make this right for the victims, and to send a message that we will protect people of all races and national origins from injustice of any kind. None None  None