AstraZeneca LP has agreed to pay the United States and participating states a total of $46.5 million, plus interest, to resolve allegations that it knowingly underpaid rebates owed under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, the Justice Department announced today. Of that amount, AstraZeneca will pay roughly $26.7 million, plus interest, to the United States, and the remainder to states participating in the settlement.In a separate settlement arising out of the same case, Cephalon Inc. has agreed to pay the United States and participating states a total of $7.5 million, plus interest, to resolve similar allegations. Of that amount, Cephalon will pay roughly $4.3 million, plus interest, to the United States, and the remainder to states participating in the settlement.The Medicaid Drug Rebate Program relies on drug manufacturers reporting accurate pricing information used in the rebate calculations, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer, the head of the Justice Departments Civil Division. These settlements demonstrate the Department of Justices commitment to ensuring that state Medicaid programs receive the full amount of rebates from manufacturers that Congress intended.We will continue to police the pharmaceutical industry when the Medicaid program overpays for drugs, said First Assistant U.S. Attorney Louis D. Lappen of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. As these settlements demonstrate, it is critical for pharmaceutical manufacturers to comply with requirements of programs such as the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program to ensure that the government and the taxpayers are treated fairly in the reimbursement process.Pursuant to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, drug manufacturers are required to pay quarterly rebates to state Medicaid programs in exchange for Medicaids coverage of the manufacturers drugs. The quarterly rebates are based, in part, on the Average Manufacturer Prices (AMPs) that the manufacturers report to the government for each of their covered drugs. Generally, the higher the reported AMP for a drug, the greater the rebate the manufacturer pays to state Medicaid programs for the drug. These settlements resolve allegations that AstraZeneca and Cephalon underreported AMPs for a number of their drugs by improperly reducing the reported AMPs for service fees they paid to wholesalers. As a result, the government contends that AstraZeneca and Cephalon underpaid quarterly rebates owed to the states and caused the United States to be overcharged for its payments to the states for the Medicaid program.NoneThese settlements illustrate the governments emphasis on combating health care fraud and mark another achievement for the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT) initiative, which was announced in May 2009 by the Attorney General and the Secretary of Health and Human Services. The partnership between the two departments has focused efforts to reduce and prevent Medicare and Medicaid financial fraud through enhanced cooperation. One of the most powerful tools in this effort is the False Claims Act. Since January 2009, the Justice Department has recovered a total of more than $24.8 billion through False Claims Act cases, with more than $15.9 billion of that amount recovered in cases involving fraud against federal health care programs.The settlements with AstraZeneca LP and Cephalon Inc. were the result of a coordinated effort among the Civil Divisions Commercial Litigation Branch, the U.S. Attorneys Office of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania and the Department of Health and Human Services-Office of Inspector General.None