A California man was convicted late Friday by a federal jury in the U.S. District Court for the District of Oregon.Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Criminal Division; Assistant Special Agent in Charge Cam B. Strahm of the Drug Enforcement Administrations Portland District Office; Special Agent in Charge Gregory Bretzing of the FBIs Portland Division; and Chief Lawrence P. ODea III of the Portland Police Bureau, made the announcement today following the jurys verdict.Fulgencio Arias Jr., 43, of Whittier, California, was convicted of conspiracy to distribute and possess with the intent to distribute 500 grams or more of a mixture and substance containing methamphetamine, conspiracy to commit money laundering, distribution of 500 grams or more of a mixture and substance containing methamphetamine, and attempted distribution of 500 grams or more of a mixture and substance containing methamphetamine.The defendant was charged in an indictment on Dec 15, 2011. The evidence at trial showed that the defendant was the leader of a drug trafficking organization from approximately January 2008 until Dec 15, 2011. The defendant sent large quantities of methamphetamine from the Los Angeles area to Oregon and other states in the Pacific Northwest through the use of couriers. One of the defendants Oregon-based co-conspirators received the methamphetamine for distribution in Oregon. In turn, co-conspirators returned proceeds from the distribution to the defendant using hidden bulk cash shipments and nominee bank accounts.Sentencing is scheduled for Aug 30, 2016. The defendant faces a maximum penalty of life in prison.The case was prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Clayton OConner and Michael Lang, respectively, of the Criminal Divisions Human Rights and Special Prosecutions Section and Narcotic and Dangerous Drug Section. The case was investigated by the DEA, FBI, the Portland Metro Gang Task Force, Portland Police Bureau, Tigard Police Department, Medford Police Department, Marion County Sheriffs Office, Oregon State Police Forensic Laboratory with assistance from the Multnomah County Sheriffs Office and Los Angeles Sheriffs Department.