  WASHINGTON  Miguel Angel Mejia-Munera, a/k/a "El Mellizo," was extradited today from Colombia to the United States to face narcotics trafficking charges, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Rita M. Glavin of the Criminal Division and Acting Administrator Michele M. Leonhart of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA).None  According to the indictment, returned in the District of Columbia on Jan. 29, 2004, Miguel Angel Mejia-Munera and his organization were responsible for exporting multi-thousand kilogram quantities of cocaine from Colombia to Central America, Mexico and the United States from January 1994 to January 2004.  Miguel Angel Mejia-Munera is charged in the indictment with conspiracy to import five kilograms or more of cocaine into the United States and conspiracy to manufacture and distribute five kilograms or more of cocaine, with the intent to import the cocaine into the United States. He is also charged with conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute five kilograms or more of cocaine on board a vessel subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, and with possessing and attempting to possess five kilograms or more of cocaine on board a vessel subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. Mejia-Munera also faced charges in Colombia for his alleged criminal acts.  "Through todays extradition, Miguel Angel Mejia-Munera can now be held accountable in a U.S. court for the very serious crimes he is charged with committing," said Acting Assistant Attorney General Rita M. Glavin. "His arrival in the United States sends a message that neither the United States nor Colombia will tolerate this kind of criminal activity. The Department will continue to work in close cooperation with our Colombian law enforcement partners in combating the drug trafficking that has claimed victimsin both our nations."  "The extradition of thisdrug kingpin closes the book on another major Colombia-based drug trafficking organization that not only was responsible for exporting massive quantities of cocaine destined for the United States, but also funded terrorist activities," said DEA Acting Administrator Michele M. Leonhart. "Miguel Angel Mejia-Muneras claim to have demobilized under Colombias Justice and Peace Process is without legal merit since he refused prison confinement as is required by the Colombian Justice and Peace Law. His capture by the valiant efforts of the ColombianNational Police and his extradition today underscore the resolve of our Colombian counterparts to continue working closely with us to dismantle drug and terrorist organizations."  An indictment is a formal charging document notifying the defendant of his charges. All persons charged by an indictment are presumed innocent until proven guilty.  If convicted of the charges against him, Miguel Angel Mejia-Munera faces a minimum sentence of 10 years in prison.  The case is being prosecuted by attorneys from the Criminal Divisions Narcotic and Dangerous Drug Section. Significant assistant was provided by the Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs. The investigation in this case was led by the DEA.