    WASHINGTON  The Justice Department today filed a civil complaint in the U.S. District Court for the District of Kansas against Angel Dillard for violating the Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act (FACE Act).       According to court documents, on or about Jan. 15, 2011, Dillard mailed a threatening letter to a doctor training to perform abortions in Wichita, Kan.  The letter, among other threatening language, referenced explosives placed under the doctors car.  The FACE Act prohibits threats of force against any person providing or obtaining reproductive health services, with the intent to intimidate or interfere with that person.     Among other things, Dillard wrote:  Thousands of people are already looking into your background, not just in Wichita, but from all over the U.S.  They will know your habits and routines.  They will know where you shop, who your friends are, what you drive, where you live.  You will be checking under your car everyday-because maybe today is the day someone places an explosive under it.  Later Dillard added:  We will not let this abomination continue without doing everything we can to stop it.     In its complaint, the United States seeks an order preventing Dillard from contacting the doctor and from coming within 250 feet of the doctor, her home, car or place of business.  The complaint also seeks monetary damages.       Protecting the right of reproductive health services providers to do their jobs free from the threat of harm is of the utmost importance, said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division. The Department of Justice will continue to aggressively enforce the FACE Act against those who seek to violate the rights of their fellow Americans to safely provide or obtain such services.     The murder of Dr. George Tiller brought home to many of us the terrible potential for violence and the need to use every legal means at our disposal to prevent it, said Barry Grissom, U.S. Attorney in the District of Kansas.     This civil action was filed by the Civil Rights Division Special Litigation Section Deputy Chief Julie Abbate and Trial Attorney Aaron Fleisher.