Canadian Banned from Dealing in WildlifeLinxun Liao, 35, a citizen of Canada, was sentenced yesterday in Manhattan federal court to two years in prison for his role in a wildlife trafficking scheme in which he purchased and smuggled 16 libation cups carved from rhinoceros horns and worth more than $1 million from the United States to China, announced Assistant Attorney General John C. Cruden for the Environment and Natural Resources Division of the Department of Justice, U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara of the Southern District of New York and Director Dan Ashe of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Liao pleaded guilty on June 30, 2015, to a two-count information, admitting to illegally smuggling rhinoceros horn objects from the United States.This prosecution is the result of a vigorous and ongoing investigation into traffickers profiting from endangered and precious wildlife species, said Assistant Attorney General Cruden. We must ensure that the market for antiques and alleged antiques does not also contribute to the extinction of these iconic animals, which could disappear in our lifetimes if we do not act now to stop this illegal trade.This defendant flouted the laws established to protect endangered wildlife, said U.S. Attorney Bharara. Willfully failing to declare the nature of the shipments or obtain required permits, Liao broke laws that protect rhinoceros and other magnificent species threatened with extinction. He has learned the cost of his illegal conduct.Each of the ceremonial cups that Liao trafficked represents one step closer to extinction for the rhinoceros, which are steadily being wiped out by poachers for the illegal rhino horn market, said Director Ashe. The seriousness of this crime and others like it and their consequences for the worlds most imperiled species are what drives our efforts to root out and shut down illegal operators like Mr. Liao. This sentence will serve as a strong warning that we are going to find, arrest and prosecute anyone engaged in this sort of activity and make sure they are no longer able to deprive our children and grandchildren of their wildlife inheritance.According to the information, other documents filed in federal court in Manhattan and statements made at various proceedings in this case, including todays sentencing:Liao was arrested in February 2015 as part of Operation Crash, a nationwide crackdown on illegal trafficking in rhinoceros horns. Liao was a partner in an Asian art and antiques business located in China. Liaos role was to purchase items, including wildlife items, in the United States and arrange for their export to China. Between in or about March 2012 and May 2013, Liao made online purchases of 16 rhinoceros horn products, more specifically libation cups, from auction houses in the United States, including in Manhattan, which he then smuggled to China without the required declarations and permits. In order to make these purchases, Liao used an address of his family members in New Jersey, the New Jersey location, because he knew that absent a domestic address, the auction houses would not ship him the rhinoceros horn as well as ivory that Liao had acquired. Liao then utilized a Manhattan-based courier service to illegally export the merchandise to China. Liao did not declare the rhinoceros exports to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service or obtain the required permits despite his knowledge of the need to do so. Liao closely coordinated his efforts with co-conspirators who sold the items for a profit at their antique business in China. The market value of the rhinoceros libation cups in this case is more than $1 million.The rhinoceros is an herbivore species of prehistoric origin and one of the largest remaining mega-fauna on earth. They have no known predators other than humans. All species of rhinoceros are protected under U.S. and international law. Since 1976, trade in rhinoceros horn has been regulated under CITES, a treaty signed by over 170 countries around the world to protect fish, wildlife and plants that are or may become imperiled due to the demands of international markets. Rhinoceros are also protected under the U.S. Endangered Species Act, which further regulates trade and transport.In addition to his prison term, Liao was also ordered two years of supervised release, to forfeit $1 million and 304 pieces of carved ivory found during a search of the New Jersey location. Liao was also banned from future involvement in the wildlife trade.Operation Crash is a continuing investigation by the Department of the Interiors Fish and Wildlife Service, in coordination with the Department of Justice. A crash is the term for a herd of rhinoceros. Operation Crash is an ongoing effort to detect, deter and prosecute those engaged in the illegal killing of rhinoceros and the unlawful trafficking of rhinoceros horns.Assistant Attorney General Cruden and U.S. Attorney Bharara thanked the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service for its outstanding work in this investigation. This case is being prosecuted by the Offices Complex Frauds and Cybercrime Unit. Assistant U.S. Attorney Jennifer Gachiri and Senior Litigation Counsel Richard A. Udell with the Environmental Crimes Section of the Department of Justice are in charge of the prosecution.In addition to his prison term, Liao was also ordered two years of supervised release, to forfeit $1 million and 304 pieces of carved ivory found during a search of the New Jersey location. Liao was also banned from future involvement in the wildlife trade.Operation Crash is a continuing investigation by the Department of the Interiors Fish and Wildlife Service, in coordination with the Department of Justice. A crash is the term for a herd of rhinoceros. Operation Crash is an ongoing effort to detect, deter and prosecute those engaged in the illegal killing of rhinoceros and the unlawful trafficking of rhinoceros horns.Assistant Attorney General Cruden and U.S. Attorney Bharara thanked the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service for its outstanding work in this investigation. This case is being prosecuted by the Offices Complex Frauds and Cybercrime Unit. Assistant U.S. Attorney Jennifer Gachiri and Senior Litigation Counsel Richard A. Udell with the Environmental Crimes Section of the Department of Justice are in charge of the prosecution.