All Seven Defendants Charged Have Now Been Convicted Two Colombian nationals pleaded guilty today to second degree murder and conspiracy to kidnap an internationally protected person for their roles in the kidnapping and murder of Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) Special Agent James Terry Watson in Bogot, Colombia, on June 20, 2013.Attorney General Eric H. Holder, Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Dana J. Boente of the Eastern District of Virginia, Special Agent in Charge George L. Piro of the FBIs Miami Field Office, DEA Administrator Michele M. Leonhart and Bill A. Miller, Director, U.S. State Departments Diplomatic Security Service made the announcement.The Department of Justice has now obtained pleas for all seven individuals charged with the kidnapping and murder of Special Agent Watson, as well as the attempt to cover up the crime, said Attorney General Eric Holder. Although this marks an important milestone in our effort to achieve justice for a fallen hero, our work is far from over. The Justice Department will never rest in its commitment to honor the service, and the profound sacrifice, of Special Agent Watson and so many other courageous men and women in federal law enforcement. And we will never waver in our pursuit of criminals who target or seek to harm Americans anywhere in the world.Special Agent Terry Watsons kidnapping and murder resulted in a loss that will always be felt by the men and women of DEA, said DEA Administrator Michele M. Leonhart. Todays admission of guilt brings us closer to ensuring that justice is served in this tragedy. DEA will never forget Terrys outstanding career and the work he did with our global partners in the shared fight against international drug traffickers.In the statements of facts filed with their plea agreements, Omar Fabin Valdes Gualtero, 28, and dgar Javier Bello Murillo, 28, both of Bogot, admitted that they conspired with four other individuals Edwin Gerardo Figueroa Seplveda, Julio Estiven Gracia Ramrez, Hctor Leonardo Lpez, and Andrs lvaro Oviedo Garcato conduct paseo milionarios or millionaires rides in which victims were lured into taxi cabs, kidnapped, and then robbed. Valdez Gualtero admitted that he was responsible for helping to organize the robbery crew and obtaining disposable cell phones for use during the robberies. Both defendants admitted that on the evening of June 20, 2013, their robbery crew targeted Special Agent Watson outside of a restaurant in Bogot. Gracia Ramrez picked up Special Agent Watson in his taxi, while Lpez drove a second taxi carrying Valdes Gualtero, Bello Murillo and Figueroa Seplveda. After Gracia Ramrez pretended to have mechanical trouble and stopped the taxi, Bello Murillo and Figueroa Seplveda entered the back seat with Special Agent Watson. A struggle ensued and Figueroa Seplveda shocked Special Agent Watson with a stun gun while Bello Murillo stabbed him at least four times. Special Agent Watson was able to escape from the taxi, but he later collapsed and died from his injuries.In total, seven defendants were arrested and extradited from Colombia to the United States to face charges in connection with Special Agent Watsons murder and the subsequent attempt to cover up the crime. Six defendants were charged with murder and conspiracy to kidnap. A seventh defendant, Wilson Daniel Peralta-Bocachica, was charged with obstruction of justice for his role in cleaning the victims blood from the backseat of the taxi. All of the defendants have pleaded guilty for their roles in this incident. Gracia Ramrez, Lpez, and Oviedo Garca were sentenced on Dec. 14, 2014, to 20 years, 25 years, and 27 years, in prison respectively. Figueroa Seplveda and Peralta-Bocachica are scheduled to be sentenced on Feb. 18, 2015. Valdes Gualtero and Bello Murillo are scheduled to be sentenced on April 10, 2015.This case was investigated by the FBI, DEA and the Diplomatic Security Service, in close cooperation with Colombian authorities and with assistance from INTERPOL and the Justice Departments Office of International Affairs. The case is being prosecuted by Special Counsel Stacey Luck of the Criminal Divisions Human Rights and Special Prosecutions Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael P. BenAry of the U.S. Attorneys Office of the Eastern District of Virginia.The Department of Justice gratefully acknowledges the Colombian Attorney Generals Office, Colombian National Police, Colombian Directorate of Criminal Investigation and Interpol (DIJIN), DIJIN Special Investigative Unit, Bogot Metropolitan Police, Bogot Police Intelligence Body (CIPOL) Unit and Colombian Technical Investigation Team for their extraordinary efforts, support and professionalism in responding to this incident.