The Department of Justice today announced the appointment of Chuck Rosenberg to serve as Acting Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA).Throughout his distinguished career in law enforcement and public service, Chuck has earned the trust and the praise of his colleagues at every level, said Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch. He has proven himself as an exceptional leader, a skilled problem-solver, and a consummate public servant of unshakeable integrity. And he has demonstrated, time and again, his deep and unwavering commitment not only to the women and men who secure our nation, but to the fundamental values that animate their service. As Acting Administrator of the DEA, Chuck will play a vital role in the work of this Administration and this Department of Justice to pursue American priorities, protect American interests, and safeguard our way of life. I can think of no better individual to lead this storied agency, and I have no doubt that his tenure will be defined by the same commitment to honor and excellence that has guided him throughout his distinguished career. I congratulate him once again on this well-deserved appointment, and look forward to all that he will achieve in the days ahead.A veteran of the Justice Department, Rosenberg currently serves as Chief of Staff to the Director of the FBI. In this role, he works closely with Director James B. Comey and other senior FBI officials on counterterrorism, intelligence, cyber and criminal investigative issues, including with international, federal, state and local law enforcement partners. He also works closely with Director Comey on management, policy and personnel issues.Chuck Rosenberg is one of the finest people and public servants I have ever known, said Director Comey. His judgment, intelligence, humility, and passion for the mission will be sorely missed at FBI. I congratulate our friends at the Drug Enforcement Administration. This is good for the entire Department of Justice and the country.Rosenberg was presidentially appointed and confirmed as the U.S. Attorney of the Eastern District of Virginia, from 2006 through 2008, and appointed by the Attorney General to serve as the U.S. Attorney of the Southern District of Texas, from 2005 through 2006.Rosenberg was hired out of law school through the Attorney Generals Honors Program and has served in numerous positions throughout the Department of Justice, including Chief of Staff to the Deputy Attorney General from 2004 through 2005, Counselor to the Attorney General from 2003 through 2004, Counsel to the Director of the FBI from 2002 through 2003, an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the Eastern District of Virginia from 1994 through 2000, and a Trial Attorney for the Tax Divisions Criminal Enforcement Section from 1990 through 1994.Rosenberg has also spent time working in private practice as Counsel at Hunton and Williams, from 2000 through 2002, and as a partner at Hogan Lovells US LLP (2008-2013).During his years as a federal prosecutor, Rosenberg conducted grand jury investigations and has been the lead trial lawyer in many federal prosecutions involving espionage, kidnapping, murder, crimes against children and complex financial fraud cases.Rosenberg received his B.A. from Tufts University, his M.P.P. from Harvard University and his J.D. from the University of Virginia.Rosenberg will assume the role of Acting Administrator on May 18, 2015. He will replace Administrator Michele Leonhart, who previously announced her retirement.Michele has devoted her professional career to the security of our nation and the protection of the American people, said Attorney General Lynch. I want to thank her for her 35 years of service to the DEA, to the Department of Justice and to the country, and I wish her well as she embarks on a new chapter in her already extraordinary life.