Princess Cruise Lines Ltd. (Princess) was sentenced to pay a $40 million penalty  the largest-ever for crimes involving deliberate vessel pollution  related to illegal dumping overboard of oil contaminated waste and falsification of official logs in order to conceal the discharges, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Jeffrey H. Wood for the Department of Justices Environment and Natural Resources Division, and Acting U.S. Attorney Benjamin G. Greenberg for the Southern District of Florida in Miami, Florida. The sentence was imposed today by U.S. District Judge Patricia A. Seitz in Miami. Judge Seitz also ordered that $1 million be awarded to a British engineer, who first reported the illegal discharges to the British Maritime and Coastguard Agency (MCA), which in turn provided the evidence to the U.S. Coast Guard. The newly hired engineer on the Caribbean Princess reported that a so-called magic pipe had been used on Aug. 23, 2013, to illegally discharge oily waste off the coast of England without the use of required pollution prevention equipment. The evidence gathered by the whistleblower, including photographs of the magic pipe, led to an inspection of the cruise ship both in England and then when it reached New York on Sept. 14, 2013. During each of the separate inspections certain crew members concealed the illegal activity by lying to the authorities in accordance with orders they had received from Caribbean Princess engineering officers. NoneThe sentence imposed by Judge Seitz also requires that Princess remain on probation for a period of five years during which time all of the related Carnival cruise ship companies trading in the U.S. will be required to implement an environmental compliance plan that includes independent audits by an outside company and oversight by a court appointed monitor. As a result of the governments investigation, Princess has already taken various corrective actions, including upgrading the oily water separators and oil content monitors on every ship in its fleet and instituting many new policies. According to papers filed in court, the Caribbean Princess had been making illegal discharges through bypass equipment since 2005, one year after the ship began operations. The August 2013 discharge approximately 23-miles off the coast of England involved approximately 4,227 gallons within the countrys Exclusive Economic Zone. At the same time as the discharge, engineers ran clean seawater through the ships monitoring equipment in order to conceal the criminal conduct and create a false digital record for a legitimate discharge. The case against Princess included illegal practices which were found to have taken place on five Princess ships  Caribbean Princess, Star Princess, Grand Princess, Coral Princess and Golden Princess. One practice was to open a salt water valve when bilge waste was being processed by the oily water separator and oil content monitor. The purpose was to prevent the oil content monitor from going into alarm mode and stopping the overboard discharge. This was done routinely on the Caribbean Princess in 2012 and 2013. The second practice involved discharges of oily bilge water originating from the overflow of graywater tanks into the machinery space bilges. This waste was pumped back into the graywater system rather than being processed as oily bilge waste, and then pumped overboard anytime the ship was more than four nautical miles from land. As a result, discharges within U.S. waters were likely. None of the discharges were recorded in the oil record books that are required to be maintained on board the ships.  These violations of law were serious, longstanding and designed to conceal illegal discharges, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Wood. The sentence in this case should ensure that these crimes do not take place in the future and should also send a strong message to others that illegally polluting U.S. waters will not be tolerated. NoneToday's large criminal penalty makes it clear that businesses that operate in our oceans will be held accountable for violating their obligation to safeguard the marine environment, stated Acting U.S. Attorney Greenberg. The U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of Florida and our maritime partners are committed to ensuring that all vessel operators adhere to recognized standards in order to protect our open seas and coasts. We will continue to use the U.S. courts to pursue those who circumvent the law for their own personal gain. Without the courageous act of a junior crewmember to alert authorities to these criminal behaviors of deliberately dumping oil at sea, the global environmental damage caused by the Princess fleet could have been much worse, said Rear Admiral Scott Buschman, Commander of the U.S. Coast Guard Seventh District. The selflessness of this individual exposed five different ships that embraced a culture of shortcuts and I am pleased at this outcome.As set forth in papers filed in court, Princess admitted to the following:  None None