    WASHINGTON Alexander Beltran Herrera, 35, aka Jhon Alexander Beltrain Herrera, aka Rodrigo Pirinolo, an accused member of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC), has been extradited from Colombia to face hostage taking and terrorism charges in the United States.     The extradition was announced by Lisa Monaco, Assistant Attorney General for National Security; Ronald C. Machen Jr., U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia; and Dena Choucair, Acting Special Agent in Charge of the FBIs Miami Division.       Beltran Herrera was extradited from Colombia to the United States over the weekend to face charges in an indictment returned in the District of Columbia on Feb. 22, 2011.  The indictment, which names as defendants 18 members of the FARC, charges Herrera specifically with one count of conspiracy to commit hostage taking; three counts of hostage taking; one count of using and carrying a firearm during a crime of violence; one count of conspiracy to provide material support to terrorists and one count of conspiracy to provide material support to a designated foreign terrorist organization.       Beltran Herrera is scheduled to be arraigned today at 11:15 a.m. before Chief Judge Royce C. Lamberth in federal court in the District of Columbia.  If convicted of all the charges against him, he faces a maximum potential sentence of life in prison. None None       According to the indictment, Gonsalves, Howes and Stansell were held by the FARC at gunpoint and were advised by FARC leadership that they would be used as hostages to increase international pressure on the government of the Republic of Colombia to agree to the FARCs demands.   None       Throughout the captivity of these three hostages, FARC jailors and guards, including Beltran Herrera, used choke harnesses, chains, padlocks and wires to restrain the hostages, and used force and threats to continue their detention and prevent their escape.   The indictment also accuses Beltran Herrera of using and carrying a military-type machine gun during the hostage taking and providing material support and resources to aid in the hostage taking and to aid the FARC.       Todays extradition underscores our resolve to hold accountable all those responsible for this crime and we will not rest until every one of them is brought to justice, said Assistant Attorney General Monaco.     This extradition is another step toward justice on behalf of Americans taken hostage and held in chains by a Colombian terrorist organization, said U.S. Attorney Machen. We will not hesitate to bring to justice anyone who targets Americans around the world with violence to advance their political agendas.     This extradition further disrupts and dismantles the FARC, a foreign terrorist organization that has engaged in violent acts against American and Colombian citizens, said FBI Acting Special Agent in Charge Choucair. The outstanding, long term cooperation between the Colombian National Police and U.S. law enforcement has struck another blow to international terrorism.       This investigation is being led by the FBIs Miami Field Division.  The prosecution is being handled by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Anthony Asuncion and Fernando Campoamor-Sanchez from the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Columbia, and Trial Attorney David Cora from the Counterterrorism Section of the Justice Departments National Security Division.       Substantial assistance in the case was provided by the Justice Departments Office of International Affairs, the Departments Judicial Attachs in Colombia, and the FBIs Office of the Legal Attach in Colombia. The Directorate of Intelligence (DIPOL) and the Anti-Kidnapping Unit (GAULA) of the Colombian National Police also provided substantial assistance.     The public is reminded that an indictment contains mere allegations and that defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.