Thirteen individuals, including alleged high-level cartel members, were extradited from Mexico to the United States to face charges pending in various jurisdictions, including the murders of a U.S. Consulate employee and two others, and other violent crimes and drug trafficking-related offenses.Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch, Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, Acting Administrator Chuck Rosenberg of the Drug Enforcement Administration, FBI Director James B. Comey and Acting Director David Harlow of the U.S. Marshals Service made the announcement.In their first meeting on June 16, 2015, Attorney General Lynch and Attorney General Arely Gmez Gonzlez of Mexico agreed to begin a new era of collaboration between the two nations to fight international organized crime. The extraditions announced today are a result of these efforts.Todays extraditions would not have been possible without the close collaboration and productive relationship the Department of Justice enjoys with officials at the highest levels of law enforcement in Mexico, said Attorney General Lynch. I am grateful to our Mexican counterparts not only for their assistance with this important matter, but also for their extraordinary efforts and unwavering partnership in our ongoing fight against international organized crime. I look forward to all that we will continue to accomplish in the service of that mission as we build on these achievements together in the days and months ahead.The following 12 defendants were placed in the custody of U.S. Marshals Service late this afternoon. An additional defendant was also extradited, but the case remains under seal until the defendants initial appearance tomorrow.NoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneThe charges and allegations in an indictment are merely accusations. The defendants are presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty.Todays extraditions were coordinated by the Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs, the FBI, the DEA and the U.S. Marshals Service. The federal cases are being handled by prosecutors in the Criminal Divisions Narcotic and Dangerous Drug Section and Organized Crime and Gang Section and in the U.S. Attorneys Offices in the District of Columbia, Central District of California, Northern District of Georgia, Northern District of Illinois, Eastern District of Louisiana, Southern District of Texas and the Western District of Texas. The state case is being handled by the Office of the Prosecuting Attorney for Arkansas.