None  Todays guilty pleas were made as part of a plea agreement with the government that is subject to approval by Judge Susan Illston of the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. If the plea terms are approved by the Court, Fleet has agreed to pay a total $10 million criminal penalty. Of this amount, $2 million would be devoted to fund marine environmental projects in San Francisco Bay.  The plea agreement, should the court accept it, also calls for Fleet to implement a comprehensive compliance plan that would include heightened training and voyage planning for ships engaged in trade in the United States. The training will focus on better preparing masters for command of Fleets vessels, providing classroom and shipboard navigation training to those who navigate Fleets vessels, and ensuring that all Fleet vessels calling in U.S. ports create a thorough plan for how they will navigate in those ports. The new training and voyage planning requirements will be subject to auditing and the courts supervision.  "Todays guilty plea by Fleet, combined with the recent sentencing of the ships pilot, sends a signal to the maritime industry that the government recognizes that navigation of large vessels is a serious undertaking and that those who fail to adequately train, execute and supervise their responsibilities will be held accountable," said John C. Cruden, Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division. "Fleet engaged in criminal conduct when shore-based supervisors directed the fabrication of false and forged documents to deceive investigators and hide its own culpability."  "This criminal prosecution emphasizes that vessel managers have the responsibility to train and supervise its crews and to follow required procedures," said Joseph P. Russoniello, U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of California. "Fleet failed to meet its obligation under international law to ensure the crew was adequately trained on navigation procedures and equipment. Vessel operators cannot abdicate their responsibilities to ensure safety and environmental protection without suffering serious consequences."NoneNone  Sentencing has been scheduled for Dec. 11, 2009 at 11:00 a.m. PT.None  The collision caused a gash measuring approximately 150 feet long by 12 feet high on the port side of the ship, puncturing two of the ships fuel tanks and damaging the fendering system on the Delta tower of the bridge, and resulting in a significant environmental clean-up. At least 2,000 migratory birds died, including Brown Pelicans, Marbled Murrelets and Western Grebes. The Brown Pelican is a federally endangered species and the Marbled Murrelet is a federally threatened species and an endangered species under California law.  The criminal investigation was conducted by the Coast Guard Investigative Service; the EPA Criminal Investigation Division; the Federal Bureau of Investigation; the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service; Silicon Valley Regional Computer Forensics Laboratory; and the California Department of Fish and Game, Office of Spill Prevention and Response. The investigation also received technical assistance from other Coast Guard offices including District 11 Legal Office, Sector San Francisco, Office of Investigations and Analysis, Office of Maritime and International Law, Office of Vessel Activities, Electronics Support Unit, Alameda and the Marine Safety Laboratory. In announcing the plea agreement, the U.S. Attorney and Assistant Attorney General thanked federal and state investigators and offices for their assistance in the prosecution.  The criminal case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Jonathan Schmidt and Stacey Geis, and Special Assistant U.S. Attorney Christopher Tribolet of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Northern District of California, and Richard A. Udell, Senior Trial Attorney with the Justice Departments Environmental Crimes Section.None