The Department of Justice announced today that University Furnishings LP and its general partner, Freedom Furniture Group Inc. (collectively University Furnishings) agreed to pay $15 million to resolve a lawsuit brought under the False Claims Act alleging that the companies made or conspired with others to make false statements to avoid paying duties on wooden bedroom furniture imported from the Peoples Republic of China. Texas-based University Furnishings sells furniture for student housing.Those who introduce goods into the United States must comply with the law, including the payment of customs duties meant to protect domestic companies and American workers from unfair competition abroad, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer, head of the Justice Departments Civil Division. The Department of Justice will zealously pursue those who seek an unfair advantage in U.S. markets by evading the duties owed on goods imported into this country.The government alleged that between 2009 and mid-2012, University Furnishings knowingly misclassified or conspired with others to misclassify wooden bedroom furniture on documents presented to U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to avoid paying antidumping duties on imports of wooden bedroom furniture manufactured in the Peoples Republic of China. Specifically, University Furnishings allegedly classified the furniture as office and other types of furniture not subject to duties while selling the furniture in the student housing market for use in dormitory bedrooms. The Department of Commerce assesses and CBP collects antidumping duties to protect U.S. businesses by offsetting unfair foreign pricing and foreign government subsidies. Companies that cheat, by fraudulently mislabeling their imports, undermine U.S. manufacturers and others that obey the rules, and hurt consumers and taxpayers, said U.S. Attorney Richard L. Durbin Jr. of the Western District of Texas. We are hopeful that todays settlement will help deter others from this type of scheme.NoneThe case was handled by the Civil Divisions Commercial Litigation Branch, the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Western District of Texas, CBPs Office of Field Operations, Office of Regulatory Audit and Office of Chief Counsel; and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations.None