The Justice Department announced today it has reached an agreement with the Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles (LASC) to ensure that limited English proficient (LEP) court users will have access to timely and accurate language assistance services.The agreement resolves a Justice Department investigation of a complaint filed by the Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles. The complaint alleged that LASC failed to provide LEP individuals with meaningful access to its court services, including civil proceedings and court operations, in violation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and its implementing regulations, which prohibit discrimination on the basis of national origin.We applaud the Los Angeles County Superior Court for committing to protect the rights of all people, whatever their national origin or level of English proficiency, to participate meaningfully, fully and fairly in state court proceedings, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta, head of the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division. Providing effective language services is essential to vindicating the civil rights of court users and safeguarding the integrity of our justice system.The Los Angeles County Superior Court has accepted the challenge of serving the needs of limited English proficient individuals in one of the most populous and linguistically diverse areas of the country, said U.S. Attorney Eileen Decker of the Central District of California. Protecting the civil rights of all people within the Central District of California is one of my top priorities as United States Attorney, and todays agreement serves that goal by giving greater access to the judicial system to individuals so that they may protect their own rights.During the investigation, LASC steadily expanded its provision of interpreter services, which now includes all criminal and the vast majority of civil proceedings, as well as oral and written language assistance in court services. LASC has agreed to expand free interpreter services to unlimited civil matters  the last remaining case type in which language services are currently not guaranteed  by Dec. 1, 2017. Among other commitments, the court will translate additional documents, provide broader notice about the availability of free interpreter services for court proceedings and make it easier to request an interpreter. LASC will also continue to seek input from community partners serving LEP populations. Under the terms of the agreement, LASC will provide periodic updates to the Justice Department until the end of 2017.NoneThis matter was jointly investigated by Attorney Anna Medina of the Civil Rights Divisions Federal Coordination and Compliance Section (FCS) and Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard Park of the Central District of California.NoneNone