  The United States and private plaintiffs announced today that it has reached an agreement with the state of Ohio, under which the State Department of Youth Services (DYS) will dramatically reduce, and eventually eliminate, its use of seclusion on young people in its custody. DYS will also ensure that young people in its juvenile facilities receive individualized mental health treatment to prevent and address the conditions and behaviors that led to seclusion. The order resolves allegations that the state subjects young people with mental health needs in its custody to harmful seclusion and withholds treatment and programming, in violation of their constitutional rights.   Overreliance on solitary confinement for young people, particularly those with disabilities, is unsafe and counterproductive, said Attorney General Eric Holder. This agreement will help ensure that incarceration in Ohio's state facilities is humane and that appropriate treatment is provided for young people with mental illness. The Justice Department will continue to evaluate the use of solitary confinement so that it does not become a new normal for incarcerated juveniles. None None   As an interim measure prior to the elimination of disciplinary seclusion for youth, the state will dramatically reduce the conditions under which seclusion is allowed and the duration of seclusion. The state will also reduce the potential harms caused by seclusion by increasing access to therapeutic, educational and recreational services while a young person is in seclusion. None   Because the order also reflects the states commitment to eliminate all disciplinary seclusion, the department agreed to withdraw its remaining claims regarding the states seclusion of youth who do not have an identified mental health disorder. The department can renew those claims later if the state makes insufficient progress in eliminating all forms of disciplinary seclusion.   The state of Ohio, the administrators of the Department of Youth Services and their counsel are to be commended for their commitment to reforming Ohios juvenile correctional facilities, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Jocelyn Samuels for the Civil Rights Division. Ohios commitments in this agreement will go a long way toward reducing the harm young people are experiencing in the states juvenile correctional facilities, especially young people with mental health needs.    This agreement will provide significant relief to youth in DYS custody by ensuring they receive appropriate mental health treatment and are not subject to excessive seclusion, said U.S. Attorney Carter Stewart for the Southern District of Ohio. Today, the state has taken an important step in rectifying the unconstitutional conditions in its juvenile correctional facilities.   We applaud the state for its commitment to rectifying the overuse of seclusion on youth in its custody, stated U.S. Attorney Steven M. Dettelbach for the Northern District of Ohio. The agreement we are announcing today  which is the result of the collective efforts of the Justice Department, the private plaintiffs and the state of Ohio  will put in place reforms that will drastically improve outcomes for these youth. None None