NoneSpecial Master Birnbaum will continue to the full-time practice of law at Quinn Emanuel, LLP, where she is a partner. Bhattacharyya, who currently serves as Director of the Justice Departments Constitutional and Specialized Tort Litigation Section in the Civil Divisions Torts Branch, will assume her new position on July 21.NoneAs a life-long New Yorker, serving as Special Master of the VCF has been perhaps the most personally rewarding work of my career, said Special Master Birnbaum. My goal from the beginning was to establish a program that is fair, transparent and easy to navigate and I believe we have accomplished this and more over the past five years. It has been a true privilege to work on behalf of the victims of 9/11 and their resilience is inspiring. As the VCF moves into a new chapter following the reauthorization, I know the team is well poised to continue to succeed in compensating those most impacted by the events of Sept. 11, 2001. Birnbaum has served as VCF Special Master since May 2011, after the fund created under the James Zadroga 9/11 Health & Compensation Act (Zadroga Act) was signed into law by President Obama on Jan. 2, 2011. The VCF was reauthorized in December 2015 and under Birnbaums leadership has rendered award decisions on more than 10,000 claims and paid over $1.8 billion to first responders, recovery workers and residents who suffered physical harm or were killed as a result of the terrorist-related aircraft crashes of Sept. 11, 2001, or the debris removal efforts that took place in the immediate aftermath.The VCF accomplishments under Birnbaums leadership include:I am honored to be selected by the Attorney General for this important service, Bhattacharyya said. I look forward to working alongside the dedicated VCF staff to ensure that 9/11 claimants promptly receive the payments to which they are entitled.NoneBhattacharyya also served for nearly four years as the Deputy Assistant General Counsel for International Affairs at the U.S. Department of the Treasury, providing legal and legislative advice on a broad range of international economic and financial matters as well as administrative matters including hiring and budget. In 2012, she received an Exceptional Service Award from the Secretary of the Treasury for playing a critical role in framing the legal contours of key national security objectives of the Treasury Department, for contributing significantly to the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act, particularly with respect to its international implications and for deploying information technology resources to enhance information sharing and streamlining procedures for processing Freedom of Information Act requests.She previously worked for nearly 12 years as an attorney in the Justice Departments Civil Division, mostly in the Federal Programs Branch. She was awarded the Attorney Generals John Marshall Award for Outstanding Legal Achievement for Trial Litigation, as well as three Special Commendations from the Assistant Attorney General of the Civil Division for Outstanding Service. Before coming to the Justice Department, Bhattacharyya clerked for then Chief Judge Julia Smith Gibbons of the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Tennessee.Bhattacharyya received her J.D. from Harvard Law School, a Masters of Arts in Law and Diplomacy (M.A.L.D.) from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University and her B.A. from Tulane University.None