  WASHINGTON  The Justice Department today announced that it has reached an agreement with Alaska officials to help ensure that military service members and other U.S. citizens living overseas have an opportunity to participate fully in the Nov. 2, 2010, federal general election. The agreement was necessary to ensure Alaskas compliance with the 2009 Military and Overseas Voter Empowerment Act (MOVE Act).  The agreement provides Alaska will expedite the candidate certification procedures for its Aug. 24, 2010, primary election so that it is able to send out an official absentee ballot to all military service members and other U.S. citizens living overseas no later than Sept. 18, 2010. This date for mailing, or faxing if the voter requests, the official ballot is 45 days in advance of the federal general election, thus ensuring that eligible military and overseas voters have sufficient time to receive, cast and return their ballots and to have their votes counted.  "Our uniformed service members and other overseas citizens deserve a meaningful opportunity to participate in the elections of our nations leaders," said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division. "I am extremely pleased that Alaskas officials worked quickly and cooperatively with the department and agreed to measures that will ensure the states military and overseas voters, many of whom are members of our armed forces and their families bravely serving our country around the world, will have the opportunity to have their votes counted in the upcoming election."None  Alaska sought a hardship waiver on grounds that its Aug, 24, 2010, primary election date prohibited it from complying with the 45-day deadline specified by the MOVE Act. On Aug. 27, 2010, the Department of Defense denied Alaskas request, finding that although the state had shown an undue hardship for the Nov. 2, 2010 election, its proposed comprehensive plan did not afford sufficient time for UOCAVA voters to receive and submit absentee ballots in time to have them counted. Immediately following denial of the waiver application, the Department of Justice advised Alaska officials that the Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights had authorized litigation to enforce UOCAVA. Discussions with the state were initiated to resolve the matter, which led to the agreement announced today.None