NoneAccording to court documents, Fong and Worthing conspired with others for various lengths of time between October 2009 and November 2010, not to compete against one another, but instead to designate a winning bidder to obtain selected properties at public real estate foreclosure auctions in San Francisco County. Worthing was also charged with participating in a similar conspiracy in San Mateo County, Calif. from September 2010 until January 2011. Fong and Worthing also were charged with conspiracies to use the mail to carry out a scheme to fraudulently acquire title to selected properties sold at public auctions.The collusion taking place at these auctions eliminated competition from the marketplace and allowed the conspirators to profit from the financial distress of others, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Sharis A. Pozen in charge of the Department of Justices Antitrust Division. The division will continue to pursue the perpetrators of these fraudulent schemes so they are held accountable for their actions.Fraudulent bid rigging and other anticompetitive activities at foreclosure auctions by conspirators are illegal and unfair to individuals who are forced to sell and legitimate buyers looking to purchase homes in our communities, said FBI Special Agent in Charge Stephanie Douglas of the San Francisco Field Office. We continue to work closely with our partners at the Antitrust Division to identify and bring to justice those who engage in this type of activity.The department said that the primary purpose of the conspiracies was to suppress and restrain competition and to make and receive payoffs in order to obtain selected real estate offered at San Mateo and San Francisco Counties public foreclosure auctions at non-competitive prices. When real estate properties are sold at these auctions, the proceeds are used to pay off the mortgage and other debt attached to the property, with remaining proceeds, if any, paid to the homeowner.Each violation of the Sherman Act carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $1 million fine for individuals. The maximum fine for the Sherman Act charges may be increased to twice the gain derived from the crime or twice the loss suffered by the victim if either amount is greater than the $1 million statutory maximum. Each count of conspiracy to commit mail fraud carries a maximum sentence of 30 years in prison and a $1 million fine. The government can also seek to forfeit the proceeds earned from participating in the conspiracy to commit mail fraud.The charges today are the latest cases filed by the department in its ongoing investigation into bid rigging and fraud at public real estate foreclosure auctions in San Francisco, San Mateo, Contra Costa and Alameda Counties, Calif. To date, as a result of the investigation, 22 individuals, including Fong and Worthing, have agreed to plead or have pleaded guilty.NoneNone**The fraud charge against Lydia Fong referenced in this press release was subsequently dismissed on the governments motion.**