An administrator of a Miami home health care company, Professional Medical Home Health LLC, was sentenced to serve 68 months in prison and ordered to pay $6,257,142 million in restitution today for her participation in a $6 million health care fraud scheme. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Wifredo A. Ferrer of the Southern District of Florida, Special Agent in Charge George L. Piro of the FBIs Miami Field Office and Acting Special Agent in Charge Derrick Jackson of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector Generals (HHS-OIG) Miami Regional Office made the announcement. U.S. District Judge Federico A. Moreno of the Southern District of Florida imposed the sentence.According to court documents, Annilet Dominguez, 28, of Hialeah, Florida, was an administrator at Professional Home Health. Dominguez and her co-conspirators paid kickbacks to patient recruiters in return for providing patients to Professional Home Health. Dominguez and her co-conspirators falsified patient documentation to make it appear that beneficiaries qualified for and received home health care services, when, in fact, many of the beneficiaries did not actually qualify for or receive such services. Dominguez and her co-conspirators then caused the submission of false claims to Medicare for services that were not medically necessary or not provided.From December 2008 through February 2014, Medicare paid Professional Home Health approximately $6.25 million for fraudulent claims for home health care services.On June 25, 2014, Dominguez pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit health care fraud and three counts of making false statements related to health care matters. On Aug. 26, 2014, co-defendant Annarella Garcia was sentenced to serve 70 months in prison and ordered to pay $6,257,142 million in restitution.The case was investigated by the FBI and HHS-OIG and was brought as part of the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, under the supervision of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of Florida. This case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Anne P. McNamara and A. Brendan Stewart of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section.Since its inception in March 2007, the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, now operating in nine cities across the country, has charged nearly 2,000 defendants who have collectively billed the Medicare program for more than $6 billion. In addition, the HHS Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, working in conjunction with the HHS-OIG, are taking steps to increase accountability and decrease the presence of fraudulent providers.None# # #