    WASHINGTON-- The Justice Department today announced a settlement agreement with the Alexandria Country Day School in Alexandria, La., to resolve allegations that the school denied a six-year-old girl with Type I diabetes admission to the school after her parents requested that the school supervise her in   daily diabetes care practices  . The parents said they had asked the school to supervise their daughter in her   testing her blood glucose level and administering insulin using her insulin pump, in addition to other daily diabetes care practices.     Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability, including diabetes, in private schools.   None     Schools have a responsibility to make reasonable modifications to policies so that all students with disabilities can enjoy their programs and activities, unless doing so would result in a fundamental alteration in the program, said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division. I applaud the school for working with us to address this matter, and we hope this agreement serves as a reminder for other private schools about the requirements of the ADA.      I congratulate the school administration for dealing with this serious issue which affects so many members of our community, said Stephanie A. Finley, U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Louisiana.    The U.S. Attorneys Office, the Department and the Obama Administration are committed to ensuring that all individuals in this country can go to schools, public and private, and participate in all of the programs that are available  .   None    That agreement allowed professional school employees to be trained and then to monitor administration of insulin for students with diabetes in certain situations when a school nurse is not available. Many California schools have no nurses due to budget constraints, and without this agreement some students likely would not receive insulin doses that are both medically necessary and required by federal laws protecting students with disabilities. The American Nurses Association filed the case challenging the agreement, arguing that a nurse must be present in all situations to monitor insulin administration.The departments brief addresses the question of whether Californias Nursing Practice Act, as interpreted by the California Court of Appeals and applied to this case, is preempted by Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, Title II of the ADA, or the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act.      The departments brief argued that under the conditions described in the settlement, federal law requires that a trained school professional be permitted to administer insulin.Interpretation of state nurse practitioner acts may also affect people with disabilities who need basic assistance with health or physical conditions to live independently, where basic assistance can be provided by trained, non-medical personnel.   None