A Former Franchisee of LBS Tax Services and Owner of AWA Tax Services Allegedly Operated Fraudulent Tax Preparation BusinessesA federal court in Miami, Florida, has permanently barred Wilfrid Antoine of Lake Worth, Florida, from preparing federal tax returns for others and from owning or operating a tax return preparation business, the Justice Department announced today.The civil injunction order, to which Antoine agreed, was signed by Judge Donald M. Middlebrooks of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida.The United States filed its civil injunction and disgorgement complaint against Antoine in September 2014. The complaint alleged that return preparers in Antoines businesses targeted primarily low-income customers with deceptive and misleading advertisements, prepared and filed fraudulent tax returns to fraudulently increase their customers refunds, and profited through unconscionable, exorbitant and often undisclosed feesall at the expense of their customers and the U.S. Treasury.According to the complaint, Antoine owned and operated AWA Tax Inc., a corporation that operated seven tax return preparation stores in Florida. Those stores allegedly operated as LBS Tax Services in 2013 and began operating as AWA Tax Services in 2014. The complaint alleged that Antoines preparers engaged in fraudulent activity, including:According to the complaint, Antoine was a franchisee of LBS Tax Services. Since September 2014, the United States has filed nine similar lawsuits in Florida against the former LBS Tax Services franchisor Walner Gachette and 12 former LBS franchisees and managers, many of whom rebranded and have continued to operate tax preparation businesses. The franchisees and managers include Douglas Mesadieu, Jean Demesmin, Kerny Pierre-Louis, Demetrius Scott, Jason Stinson, Tonya Chambers, Jehoakim Victor, Lauri Rodriguez, Milot Odne, Alexander Baraz and Christopher Lawrence. The United States has also sued Kenneth Aikens, who worked for Lawrence as a tax preparer and manager before Aikens assumed ownership of several tax return preparation stores. In the complaint against Lawrence and Aikens, the government alleges that both men have taken steps to mask their ownership of the businesses.To date, Jean Demesmin, Odne, Chambers, Scott, Pierre-Louis, Victor and Lauri Rodriguez have agreed to preliminary injunctions barring them from tax return preparation. The U.S. District Court for the Central District of Florida, following a motion by the United States, entered a preliminary injunction barring Mesadieu from tax return preparation. A preliminary injunction motion to bar Stinson from tax return preparation is pending.None