The Department of Justice announced today that it will require Verso Paper Corp. (Verso) and NewPage Holdings Inc. (NewPage) to divest two paper mills, one in Rumford, Maine, and another in Biron, Wisconsin, in order for Verso to proceed with its acquisition of NewPage. Without this divestiture, the department said, the transaction would have risked higher prices in the United States and Canada for papers used for labels, magazines and catalogues.The Antitrust Division filed a civil antitrust lawsuit today in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia to block the proposed acquisition. At the same time, the division filed a proposed settlement that, if approved by the court, would resolve the competitive concerns alleged in the lawsuit.NoneCoated freesheet web paper is bright, heavier-weight glossy paper with excellent print qualities that is used for magazine covers, premium magazines, and similar products. Coated groundwood paper is typically used for the covers of low-cost magazines and the interior pages of magazines and catalogues. Label paper, a type of freesheet paper, is coated on only one side to allow for the use of graphics on the coated side and adherence of the uncoated side to a product. Coated label paper is used on a wide variety of products, from soup cans to wine bottles.According to the departments complaint, Versos acquisition of NewPage would significantly increase concentration in various coated paper markets in the United States and Canada. Verso and NewPages combined share is approximately 50 percent in coated freesheet web paper, 40 percent in coated groundwood paper, and 70 percent in coated label paper. Preserving competition between Verso and NewPage is particularly important in the shrinking coated freesheet web and coated groundwood markets, which are likely to see higher-cost competitors exit in the next few years.The proposed divestitures address these competitive concerns. Under the terms of the proposed consent decree, Verso must divest NewPages Rumford and Biron paper mills to Catalyst Paper Corporation (Catalyst) or an alternative, independent buyer approved by the United States. Collectively, the mills to be divested produced approximately 940,000 tons of coated groundwood, coated freesheet, and other papers, which is approximately the same amount of production as Verso currently operates.Verso is a Delaware corporation headquartered in Memphis, Tennessee. It operates two mills that collectively produce coated freesheet web paper, coated groundwood paper, label paper, and other types of paper. In 2013, Verso had approximately $1.4 billion in sales.NewPage is a Delaware corporation headquartered in Miamisburg, Ohio. NewPage operates eight mills that collectively produce coated freesheet web paper, coated groundwood paper, label paper, and other types of paper. Its annual sales for 2013 were approximately $3.1 billion.Catalyst is a Canadian corporation headquartered in Richmond, British Columbia. Catalyst operates three paper mills. Catalysts 2013 sales totaled approximately $1 billion.None