A criminal complaint was unsealed today charging the head of a non-governmental organization based in Hong Kong and Virginia and the former Foreign Minister of Senegal with participating in a multi-year, multimillion-dollar scheme to bribe high-level officials in Chad and Uganda in exchange for business advantages for a Chinese oil and gas company (the Energy Company) in violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA).  None None This alleged scheme involved bribes at the highest levels of the governments of two nations, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Blanco. The Criminal Division is committed to investigating and prosecuting corrupt individuals who put at risk a level playing field for corporate competitiveness, regardless of where they live or work. Their bribes and corrupt acts hurt our economy and undermine confidence in the free marketplace. None None None These individuals allegedly offered millions of dollars in bribes to foreign officials, disguised as charitable donations, in order to seek business advantages, said HSI Special Agent in Charge Melendez. One used his position with a United Nations Council to further this scheme. We will continue to aggressively investigate financial crimes committed by corrupt foreign officials while working collaboratively with our counterparts at the FBI and IRS.  According to the allegations in the complaint, the defendants engaged in two bribery schemes to pay high-level officials of Chad and Uganda in exchange for business advantages for the Energy Company, a Shanghai-headquartered multibillion-dollar conglomerate that operates internationally in the energy and financial sectors. Defendant Ho was the head of a non-governmental organization based in Hong Kong and Virginia (the Energy NGO) that holds Special Consultative Status with the United Nations (UN) Economic and Social Council. The Energy NGO is funded by the Energy Company. The complaint alleges that Ho, with Gadios assistance, caused the Energy Company to offer a $2 million bribe to the President of Chad in exchange for securing business advantages for the Energy Company in its efforts to obtain valuable oil rights from the Chadian government. In particular, in exchange for the bribe, the President of Chad provided the Energy Company with, among other things, an exclusive opportunity to obtain particular oil rights in Chad without facing international competition. Gadio, who is the former Foreign Minister of Senegal and who operated an international consulting firm, is alleged to have played an instrumental role in the scheme by, among other things, connecting Ho with the President of Chad and conveying the $2 million bribe offer to the President of Chad. Ho allegedly compensated Gadio by paying him $400,000 via wires transmitted through New York, New York. It is further alleged that Ho caused a $500,000 bribe to be paid, via wires transmitted through New York, New York, to an account designated by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Uganda, who had recently completed his term as the President of the UN General Assembly (the Ugandan Foreign Minister). Ho also allegedly provided the Ugandan Foreign Minister, as well as the President of Uganda, with gifts and promises of future benefits, including offering to share the profits of a potential joint venture in Uganda involving the Energy Company and businesses owned by the families of the Ugandan Foreign Minister and the President of Uganda. These payments and promises were allegedly made in exchange for assistance from the Ugandan Foreign Minister in obtaining business advantages for the Energy Company, including the potential acquisition of a Ugandan bank. The charges and allegations in the complaint are merely accusations. All defendants are presumed innocent unless proven guilty in a court of law. The investigation was jointly conducted by the FBI and IRS-CI and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) and the Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs provided critical assistance. This case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys David A. Last and Paul A. Hayden of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Douglas S. Zolkind, Thomas McKay, Daniel C. Richenthal and Shane T. Stansbury U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New Yorks Public Corruption Unit. None