A leader of the Las Vegas Playboy Bloods street gang was sentenced to 23 years in prison today for engaging in a racketeering conspiracy and possessing crack cocaine with the intent to distribute it, announced Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney Daniel G. Bogden of the District of Nevada.Markette Tillman, 31, of Las Vegas, Nevada, pleaded guilty on July 29, 2014, two days into his jury trial, before U.S. District Judge Kent J. Dawson of the District of Nevada.According to Tillmans plea agreement and evidence presented at trial, the Bloods is a nationally-known criminal street gang whose members engage in drug trafficking and acts of violence. The Playboy Bloods is a local set or affiliate of the national Bloods gang with local control and operation within the Las Vegas metropolitan area. The Playboy Bloods operate primarily in the Sherman Gardens Annex, a Las Vegas public housing complex commonly called the Jets.Tillman admitted that on Jan. 20, 2004, he aided and abetted the murder of a security guard at the Jets. The guard approached Tillman and several other Playboy Bloods and told them to leave the property. An argument ensued and the guard rode away on his bicycle to get help. One of the Playboy Bloods fired a gun at the guard, hitting him two times and killing him.Tillman further admitted that he agreed with other members of the Playboy Bloods to manufacture and distribute narcotics, primarily crack cocaine, and to operate drug houses within the Playboy Bloods turf. Tillman specifically admitted to distributing in excess of 280 grams of crack cocaine over the course of the racketeering conspiracy.Tillman was the last of 10 gang members charged in the indictment filed in 2008 to be sentenced. The nine other convicted gang members received the following sentences:Jacorey Taylor, aka Mo-B, 31, was sentenced to life in prison on Oct. 21, 2013, after being convicted by a jury of engaging in a racketeering conspiracy, committing violent crimes in aid of racketeering activity, using a firearm during a crime of violence, engaging in a drug-trafficking conspiracy and possessing crack cocaine with the intent to distribute it.Steven Booth, aka Stevie-P, 27, was sentenced to 20 years in prison on April 10, 2013, after pleading guilty to engaging in a racketeering conspiracy involving two murders.Reginald Dunlap, aka Bowlie, 30, was sentenced to 20 years in prison on April 9, 2013, after pleading guilty to engaging in a racketeering conspiracy involving one murder.Demichael Burks, aka Mikey P, 29, was sentenced to 6  years in prison on Dec. 3, 2010, after pleading guilty to engaging in a racketeering conspiracy.Anthony Mabry, aka Akim Slim, 43, was sentenced to 14 years in prison on Oct. 20, 2010, after pleading guilty to engaging in a racketeering conspiracy.Delvin Ward, aka D-Luv, 37, was sentenced to 11 years in prison on Sept. 17, 2010, after pleading guilty to engaging in a racketeering conspiracy.Terrence Thomas, aka Seven, 40, was sentenced to 10 years in prison on June 16, 2010, after pleading guilty to engaging in a drug-trafficking conspiracy.Sebastian Wigg, aka Rock, 36, was sentenced to five years in prison on March 29, 2010, after pleading guilty to engaging in a drug-trafficking conspiracy.Fred Nix, aka June P, 36, was sentenced to five years in prison on March 29, 2010, after pleading guilty to engaging in a drug-trafficking conspiracy.The case was investigated by the FBIs Las Vegas Safe Streets Gang Task Force, which includes officers from the North Las Vegas Police Department and Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department, and was prosecuted by Trial Attorney Kevin L. Rosenberg of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Nicholas D. Dickinson and Phillip N. Smith Jr. of the District of Nevada.