As part of the Justice Departments new clemency initiative, Deputy Attorney General James M. Cole announced six criteria the department will consider when reviewing and expediting clemency applications from federal inmates. Under the new initiative, the department will prioritize clemency applications from inmates who meet all of the following factors:   They are currently serving a federal sentence in prison and, by operation of law, likely would have received a substantially lower sentence if convicted of the same offense(s) today;  They are non-violent, low-level offenders without significant ties to large scale criminal organizations, gangs or cartels;  They have served at least 10 years of their prison sentence;  They do not have a significant criminal history;  They have demonstrated good conduct in prison; and  They have no history of violence prior to or during their current term of imprisonment. For our criminal justice system to be effective, it needs to not only be fair; but it also must be perceived as being fair, said Deputy Attorney General Cole. Older, stringent punishments that are out of line with sentences imposed under todays laws erode peoples confidence in our criminal justice system, and I am confident that this initiative will go far to promote the most fundamental of American ideals  equal justice under law. None None None Over the past several years, Ron has performed admirably in what is a very tough job. He has demonstrated dedication and integrity in his work on pardons and commutations, Cole said. Deputy Attorney General Cole added that Acting Senior Counselor Leffs work with the departments Access to Justice program makes her uniquely qualified to step into the pardon attorneys role. Deborah has committed her career to the very basis of this initiative - achieving equal justice under law, said Deputy Attorney General Cole. As Acting Senior Counselor for Access to Justice, her fundamental mission has been to help the justice system deliver outcomes that are fair and accessible to all. To facilitate the thorough and rapid review of the new clemency applications this initiative will likely spur, Deputy Attorney General Cole announced that he issued a department-wide call for attorneys willing to help review new petitions. These attorneys will help assess the petitions to determine which fall within the six stringent standards and merit further consideration. Department lawyers will be temporarily assigned to the Pardon Attorneys Office. None In addition to notifying inmates of this initiative, BOP will provide interested inmates with an electronic survey that will help both pro bono lawyers and Justice Department lawyers to screen the petitions for the Office of the Pardon Attorney to quickly identify whether inmates meet the criteria for the program. BOP case managers will continue to provide inmates assistance with submitting the appropriate paperwork for clemency applications. Deputy Attorney General Cole sent a letter to all of the 93 U.S. attorneys asking for their assistance in identifying meritorious candidates and notifying them that the Pardon Attorneys Office will be soliciting their views on petitions that appear to meet the criteria after an initial screening by the lawyers in the Office of the Pardon Attorney. None The Deputy Attorney Generals Office oversees the Office of the Pardon Attorney. The department assists the president in the exercise of executive clemency. Under the Constitution, the presidents clemency power extends only to federal criminal offenses. All requests for executive clemency for federal offenses are directed to the pardon attorney for investigation and review. Petitions are then sent to the Deputy Attorney General for review and recommendation to the president.