NoneNoneThe departments findings, detailed in a letter to South Dakota Governor Dennis Daugaard, follow an investigation into the states system of care for people who receive services and supports in nursing facilities. The department found that thousands of people who rely on South Dakota for needed services must live in nursing facilities to receive those services, isolated from their communities. With access to adequate home- and community-based services, these individuals could instead live in their homes and communities.Regardless of their age, people with disabilities deserve privacy, autonomy and dignity in their everyday lives, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta, head of the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division. Our findings reveal how South Dakotas current system of long-term care violates federal law and fails to give people with disabilities the choice to live in their own homes and their own communities. South Dakota officials have expressed their desire to provide meaningful opportunities for people with disabilities to receive home- and community-based care, and we look forward to working with South Dakota to build a more effective, more efficient and more just service system for all.An analysis of South Dakotas current spending and national data shows that South Dakota  which has one of the highest nursing facility utilization rates in the country  may even realize cost savings and be able to serve more people by increasing the states use of home- and community-based services. The state funds the placement of about 3,400 people in nursing facilities through Medicaid at any given time, and approximately 5,500 people over the course of one year.Nursing facility residents in South Dakota range in age, and include many older adults and almost 450 people under the age of 65. In addition to older adults with age-related disabilities, many of these individuals have disabilities they were born with or acquired at a young age, such as cerebral palsy, multiple sclerosis and amputations due to diabetes or mobility impairments due to an accident.The findings letter examines the widespread impact of the states nursing facility system. For example, one 51-year-old man told the Justice Department that he had entered the nursing facility to recover after a leg amputation, but had been trying to leave the nursing facility for months, without help.The departments findings letter includes the following key conclusions:NoneThe investigation was conducted by the Civil Rights Division with assistance by the U.S. Attorneys Office of the District of South Dakota. The United States is represented by Trial Attorneys Alexandra Shandell, Joshua Rogers and Mathew Schutzer of the Civil Rights Divisions Special Litigation Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Alison Ramsdell of the District of South Dakota.South Dakota Findings Letter