NoneWith this important event, we come together to honor some of our nations most distinguished, dedicated, and deserving public servants, said Attorney General Holder. The hard work and impressive achievements of these 278 award recipients have inspired their colleagues at every level of the U.S. Department of Justice  including me. Their leadership has been indispensable in defining the past year as one of historic accomplishment in the face of nearly unprecedented challenge.NoneNoneNoneNoneOn Jan. 29, 2013, Jimmy Lee Dykes boarded a school bus in rural Midland City, Alabama, killed the driver, and took five-year-old Ethan Gilman hostage in a fortified underground bunker. Armed with multiple weapons and improvised explosive devices (IED), Dykes grew increasingly unstable over the six-day standoff, leading to an assessment that the kidnapped child would ultimately die unless a rescue was attempted. On Feb. 4, 2013, at grave personal risk and without regard for their own safety, five members of the FBI Hostage Rescue Team made entry into the bunker, which Dykes had previously indicated was a funnel of death. The initial breach was violent, but successfully cleared the bunker hatch for the five-man entry team. The team immediately encountered additional obstacles placed lower in the opening by Dykes. As the entry slowed, Dykes retrieved his handgun and engaged the team from less than five feet away while in a position of cover, and with Ethan as a shield. During the initial assault, Dykes detonated an external IED, and was believed to be in the process of attempting to detonate a second IED inside the bunker. At grave personal risk and without regard for their own safety, the members of the team moved from a position of cover, exposing themselves to gunfire, in order to clear the obstruction for entry. Without hesitation, the team entered into the darkened, smoke-filled hole. Once inside, they swiftly sorted through a confused situation, identified Ethan and immediately evacuated him from the bunker and the remaining IED threat. The exceptional courage and extraordinary decisiveness of the recipients ultimately prevailed, resulting in the death of Dykes and the rescue of Ethan unharmed.NoneNoneMr. Swartz is a person of utmost integrity, who has demonstrated his exceptional strength of character and expertise in over 12 years as Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the Criminal Division and, more recently, as the departments Counselor for International Affairs. He supervises three Criminal Division offices, each of which plays a critical role in international law enforcement. In addition to guiding these offices as they navigate some of the most sensitive international legal issues that the department handles, Mr. Swartz provides essential advice to the Attorney General, the Deputy Attorney General and other department leaders concerning the intersection of U.S. and international interests in areas of criminal law enforcement, national security and intelligence matters. He is the consummate professional and an exemplary public servant.NoneNoneMr. Herrens oversight and direction have guided the heavy and highly complex litigation, appellate and administrative review docket carried by the Civil Rights Division Voting Section, while managing resources wisely and efficiently, and raising the productivity and professionalism standards of staff. Throughout his 20 years of service to the Voting Section, Mr. Herren has significantly contributed to the development of the jurisprudence of voting rights law through his appellate work on matters before the U.S. Supreme Court or the courts of appeal, or his trial work in the district courts throughout the nation. His institutional knowledge of the sections work and voting law in general, coupled with a critical review of existing practices and a willingness to innovate and strategize, has enabled him to maximize the Voting Sections enforcement efforts. He is highly respected within the division, the department, and by elections officials and civil rights practitioners nationwide. Mr. Herrens lifetime of dedication to the Voting Section exemplifies his strong commitment to not only voting rights, but to civil rights in general and overall public service.NonePrescription drug abuse is a serious problem throughout the nation. Detective Schwartz has been a true crusader in our countrys battle against prescription drug abuse and has led the Drug Enforcement Administrations (DEA) Miami Field Divisions (MFD) Tactical Diversion Squad (TDS) program with an end result that has made a substantial impact on the illegal distribution of pharmaceuticals throughout the state of Florida. Through his outstanding investigative work on high impact pharmaceutical investigations, he has been instrumental in the success of the DEA MFD TDS goals and objectives. Detective Schwartz has educated hundreds of federal and state attorneys and law enforcement officers to investigate and successfully prosecute those responsible for the illegal diversion of pharmaceutical drugs. His outstanding accomplishments have significantly contributed to preventing the illegal diversion of pharmaceutical drugs and reducing prescription drug abuse which is vital to the health and welfare of the American people.NoneNoneThe first Distinguished Service Award is presented to members of the investigative and litigation team responsible for exemplary performance in the prosecution of conspiracies in the automobile parts industry. This team, honored for its leadership, dedication and tireless investigation of global anticompetitive cartels, is responsible for the historic prosecution of over a dozen price-fixing, bid-rigging and market-allocation conspiracies in the automobile parts industry. This four-year investigation was unprecedented in both its scope and the volume of commerce affected by the illegal conduct. Due to the teams efforts, 26 companies have agreed to pay fines totaling $2.3 billion and 20 individuals have been sentenced to serve jail sentences. The conspiracies uncovered by the investigation affected more than 25 million cars purchased by American consumers and over $5 billion in automotive parts sold to U.S. car manufacturers and automobile plants in 14 states. As a result of the extraordinary efforts of the team, competition was restored to the auto parts industry, and the companies and individuals responsible were held accountable for their illegal conduct.NoneThe second Distinguished Service Award is presented for distinguished service by the team that engaged in groundbreaking work to address constitutional violations in the operation of the juvenile court in Shelby County, Tennessee. For the first time since the law was enacted almost 20 years ago, the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act was used to investigate a juvenile court. The investigation uncovered that children were not: provided timely and adequate notice of the charges against them; protected against self-incrimination; provided timely probable cause hearings; provided meaningful assistance of counsel; and provided adequate protections before being transferred to adult court. The investigation also revealed that black children received disproportionately harsh treatment in the different stages of the delinquency process. The team negotiated a landmark settlement that is being implemented and promises to transform the juvenile court in Shelby County into a model for the nation. In the short time since the settlement was entered, Shelby County has already funded and inaugurated a juvenile public defender system. In that same time, the rate of admissions to pre-trial detention has drastically dropped, and initial data suggests that black children are already being treated more fairly at all stages of the delinquency process.NoneThe third Distinguished Service Award is presented for groundbreaking and highly successful work as part of the investigation into manipulation of the London InterBank Offered Rate (LIBOR), a leading benchmark interest rate that is tied to student loans, mortgages and financial instruments used around the world, as well as other leading benchmark interest rates, including the Euro Interbank Offered Rate (Euribor). Between June 2012 and October 2013, members of the LIBOR team resolved cases with four of the worlds largest financial institutions: Barclays Bank PLC (Barclays), UBS AG (UBS), The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC (RBS), and Coperatieve Centrale Raiffeisen-Boerenleenbank B.A. (Rabobank). At all four institutions, certain derivatives traders requested that certain rate submitters submit LIBOR and/or Euribor contributions that would benefit the traders positions, rather than rates that complied with the definitions of LIBOR and Euribor. In addition, at Barclays and UBS, management directed that LIBOR submissions be lowered in order to reduce the reputational risk associated with proper, higher LIBOR submissions. To date, the criminal penalties assessed by the department and resulting from the LIBOR teams actions exceed $1.1 billion.NoneThe fourth Distinguished Service Award is presented to the team whose outstanding contribution led to the successful arrest and prosecution of James Whitey Bulger and his longtime girlfriend, Catherine E. Greig. Bulger, one of the countrys most notorious criminals, had eluded capture for his crimes for over 16 years, helped in no small part by Greig. In June 2011, federal law enforcement officials developed a public campaign that focused on Greig rather than Bulger. The campaign worked, and Bulger and Greig were located in a Santa Monica, California, apartment along with over $800,000 in cash and 30 firearms. Bulger and Greig were then successfully prosecuted, and Greig received one of the highest sentences for harboring a fugitive ever imposed in the United States. After a 10-week trial, Bulger was convicted of multiple offenses and in November 2013, he was sentenced to serve consecutive life terms in prison. Bulgers trial was a monumental undertaking, involving evidence spanning more than 20 years of criminal conduct, including 19 charged murders. Over the course of the 10-week trial, the government called almost 70 witnesses, many of whom were hostile, advanced in age and murderers themselves. Following trial, the team also resolved several difficult and novel victim-related forfeiture issues.NoneThe fifth Distinguished Service Award is presented for the successful settlement negotiations and the predicate fraud investigations conducted by the recipients which led to the largest settlement with a single entity in American history  $13 billion  and the largest Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act penalty ever recovered by the department - $2 billion. The tireless efforts of the recipients advanced core missions of the department by holding wrongdoers accountable for reckless and abusive conduct that contributed to the financial crisis, as well as providing substantial compensation for federal entities supported by American taxpayers and critical assistance to neighborhoods impacted by the mortgage meltdown.NoneNoneNoneNoneNoneThe eighth Distinguished Service Award is presented to the team who performed distinguished work on complex legal issues arising from the 17-day federal government shutdown that occurred in October 2013 as the Executive Branch faced novel questions arising from a possible default on its fiscal obligations in the midst of a government-wide shutdown. Teams of attorneys from the Office of Legal Counsel and the Civil Divisions Federal Programs and Commercial Litigation Branches were on the front lines in addressing all of these complicated legal questions. The team advised the White House, the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the Attorney General and various other agencies, while also fending off lawsuits challenging agencies actions (or inaction) during the shutdown. In a historic time of great national significance, and under extraordinary deadlines, the teams work was thorough and careful; covered a wide range of statutory, regulatory and constitutional issues affecting every agency in the Executive Branch; and combined the highest standards of craft with the imagination and creativity demanded by the unprecedented nature of the shutdown and debt limit conflict.NoneThe ninth Distinguished Service Award is presented to the Office for Victims of Crime Antiterrorism and Emergency Assistance Program (AEAP) Team for its effective, reliable and compassionate response to victims of terrorism and mass violence. Due to the far-reaching scope and horrific nature of crimes of mass violence, communities are usually unprepared, financially or emotionally, to respond to the needs of victims and survivors. The AEAP Team has provided these communities with invaluable support in both the short and long term, from emergency crisis response to enabling victims and their families to participate in criminal justice proceedings years later. The AEAP Team has gone far beyond the role of simply awarding funding, and has taken a farsighted and proactive role to assist victims and their states and communities.NoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneMs. Dickinson has dedicated 20 years of professionalism and integrity to the U.S. Marshals Service (USMS). Her efforts to support and improve the USMS and its employees, while serving in myriad capacities within the organization, exemplify the best traditions of the department. She is not only highly regarded for her expert legal counsel, but also is respected for her stellar historical knowledge of the USMS and known for always willing to share her insight and knowledge. In her current position as the Principal Deputy General Counsel overseeing operations of the Office of General Counsel, Ms. Dickinson continues to provide legal advice and guidance, coordinate litigation matters with U.S. Attorney's Offices and respond to inquiries from other federal agencies and members of the public. Throughout her career, she has been called upon numerous times to serve dual roles for the USMS. From 2004 to 2006, she served as the Acting Executive Assistant to the director, while at the same time serving as the Equal Employment Opportunity Officer. From 2006 to 2008, she served as the Senior Counsel to the director, providing advice and guidance on diverse issues and matters. In 2012, while providing counsel in the Office of General Counsel, she also served as the Acting Assistant Director for the Human Resources Division, and from June 2013 through March 2014, she served as the Associate Director for Administration. In every position throughout her career, Ms. Dickinson has inspired co-workers and subordinates with her dedication and knowledge of the USMS, and its historic role in protecting our judiciary for the nation.NoneNoneNoneMr. Tayman is a true technology innovator who is extremely well respected throughout the department. While he has taken care of the Environment and Natural Resources Divisions (ENRD) automated information technology systems for over 25 years, Mr. Tayman is also regularly called upon to provide expert guidance for the development and deployment of major enterprise-wide departments IT systems. Just as the department turns to him for advice, insight and guidance, so do some of the worlds largest information technology equipment vendors and service providers. As a result, ENRD and the department often see incredibly satisfying price tags on the products and services it procures, and technology solutions are often provided with extra care and concern when Mr. Tayman is involved in such acquisitions.NoneOver an aggressive 19-month development cycle, the Justice Prisoner and Alien Transportation System (JPATS) Information Technology Team developed the innovative and complex JPATS Automated Routing and Scheduling System. The team implemented the details of hundreds of JPATS trips and over 11,000 prisoner routes in the system, developed major customization of Oracle Transportation Management Software, and implemented complex data integration procedures between the Base Scheduling System and the Automated Routing and Scheduling System. New user interface functions were created, and a comprehensive training program was developed to successfully address a significantly re-engineered business process. At the close of fiscal year 2013, the use of this program succeeded in exceeding target goals by supporting improvements in scheduler productivity, and by enhancing operational performance that resulted in an overall savings of $11.1 million for the department.NoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneMr. Grigsby is honored for his outstanding leadership and dedication to FPC Montgomery for the past 16 years. His knowledge and fortitude to research the most cost effective methods for repairing projects at an institution which opened in 1930 continues to exceed expectations. Mr. Grigsby supervises the plumbing, electrical, and HVAC details at the facility. Additionally, he works closely with Maxwell Air Force Base personnel, and continues to exemplify a very positive partnership with the local community. Mr. Grigsby handles institution emergencies regarding facility concerns in his area of expertise with outstanding efficiency. His ownership of projects assigned to him are reflective of his determination to ensure the best solution for a long term resolution are utilized, as well as always researching the most cost effective methods. Mr. Grigsby is viewed as a leader among his peers, and his reputation is that of a great historian to FPC Montgomery.NoneNoneNoneNoneNoneThe Flight 93 National Memorial Trial Team was responsible for litigating the acquisition of over 275 acres of land in Somerset County, Pennsylvania, where United Airlines Flight 93 crashed on Sept. 11, 2001. The land was acquired to construct the Flight 93 National Memorial to honor the victims of this national tragedy. The recipients were responsible for litigating this case and ensuring just compensation was paid to the former landowners. The case involved extensive discovery, motion practice, settlement negotiations and a week-long trial during the most recent government shutdown. On Dec. 9, 2013, the Land Commission issued a report finding that the fair market value of the subject property was $1.5 million, which was $21.7 million less than the valuation by the landowners appraiser. As the result reflects, the Flight 93 Trial Team was successful at every stage of this litigation from the preparation of numerous successful motions that eliminated millions of dollars claimed by the landowners, to limiting the scope of evidence presented at a highly-contentious trial in which the team was able to undermine the testimony of an expert who is nationally recognized in the field of valuing similar, high-profile properties. Through the teams efforts, the United States and its taxpayers saved tens of millions of dollars, while ensuring that the necessary land was acquired to develop a national memorial to the victims of United Airlines Flight 93 who lost their lives on Sept. 11, 2001.NoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNone