A former Las Vegas resident was convicted by a federal jury in Nevada today of perjury, making false statements and obstruction of justice in the course of an investigation into a scheme to fraudulently take control of homeowners associations (HOAs) in the Las Vegas area.Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, Special Agent in Charge Laura A. Bucheit of the FBIs Las Vegas Division, Special Agent in Charge John Collins of Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigations (IRS-CI) Las Vegas Field Office and Sheriff Joseph Lombardo of the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department made the announcement.Stephanie Markham, 57, of Dobbs Ferry, New York, was found guilty of one count of perjury, one count of making false statements and one count of obstruction of justice following a three-day trial in the District of Nevada. Sentencing is scheduled for Jan. 5, 2016, before U.S. District Judge James C. Mahan of the District of Nevada, who presided over the trial.Evidence presented at trial established that, in 2006, Markham participated in a scheme to take over the Jasmine Ranch HOA for the purpose of awarding the HOAs construction and legal work to other members of the conspiracy. The evidence showed that Markham received a one percent property interest in a condominium unit at Jasmine Ranch, and agreed to run for the Jasmine Ranch HOA board of directors to advance the goals of fraudulent takeover scheme.In October 2012, Markham was subpoenaed to testify before a grand jury in the District of Nevada investigating the HOA takeover scheme, and was interviewed by an FBI agent beforehand. Evidence at trial established that, both in her FBI interview and in her testimony before the grand jury, Markham falsely denied knowing about the Jasmine Ranch HOA or the takeover scheme.NoneThe case is being investigated by the FBI, IRS-CI and the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Departments Criminal Intelligence Section. The case has been prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Thomas B.W. Hall and Alison Anderson, and Deputy Chief Charles La Bella of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section.