  WASHINGTON Jeng Jay Shih, 54, a U.S. citizen, was sentenced today in the District of Columbia to 18 months in prison, while his Queens, N.Y., company, Sunrise Technologies and Trading Corporation, was sentenced to 24 months corporate probation for conspiracy to illegally export U.S.-origin computers from the United States to Iran through the United Arab Emirates (UAE).   Both Shih and his company were also sentenced to forfeiture in the amount of $1.25 million, for which they are jointly liable. None None   Shih was arrested on a criminal complaint on April 6, 2011.   He and his company were later indicted on April 21, 2011.   According to court documents filed in the case, beginning as early as about 2007, Shih conspired with a company operating in Dubai, UAE, and Tehran, Iran, to procure U.S.-origin computers through Sunrise and export those computers from the United States to Iran, through Dubai, without first obtaining a license or authorization from OFAC.   Specifically, in April 2010, the defendants caused the illegal export of 368 units of computer-related goods to Dubai, which were later sent to Iran.   Later that month, the defendants caused the illegal export of 158 additional units of computer-related goods to Dubai, which were later sent to Iran.   The defendants subsequently caused an additional 185 units of computer-related goods to be illegally exported to Iran via Dubai.   This investigation was conducted by the ICEs Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) field offices New York and San Diego, and the Department of Commerce Office of Export Enforcement field offices in New York and Los Angeles, with assistance from ICE-HSI offices in Chicago, Newark, N.J., Los Angeles and Orange County, Calif. The Department of Homeland Securitys U.S. Customs and Border Protection and OFACs Office of Enforcement also assisted in the investigation.      Chief Counsel Attorney Gregory Michelsen and Attorney-Advisor Elizabeth Abraham from the U.S. Department of Commerce, and Assistant Director of Enforcement Michael Geffroy and Enforcement Officer Elizabeth Fruzynski of the U.S. Department of Treasury handled the civil settlements for their respective agencies.   The prosecution was handled by Assistant U.S. Attorneys T. Patrick Martin and Anthony Asuncion, from the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Columbia, and Trial Attorney Jonathan C. Poling from the Counterespionage Section of the Justice Departments National Security Division.