Eighteen Others Previously Sentenced to Prison for Illegal Activity on Child Pornography Websites Based on Tor NetworkA New York man was sentenced to six years in federal prison today for receiving and accessing child pornography in connection with his use of a website based on the Tor network.Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Deborah R. Gilg of the District of Nebraska and Acting Special Agent in Charge James C. Langenberg of the FBIs Omaha, Nebraska, Division made the announcement.Child sex offenders are migrating to anonymous networks where they feel free to pursue evil and violent acts without fear or hesitation, said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. Anonymization is just one of many challenges we face when combatting the sexual victimization of children, as offenders seek to hide their activities behind technological barriers. But while identifying these criminals is difficult, it is not impossible. We will use every legal authority we have to identify and root out these predators and protect children from harm.Today's sentence and the others imposed earlier demonstrate that those who exploit children will be aggressively pursued and prosecuted to the full extent of the law, said U.S. Attorney Gilg. Those who think they are acting anonymously on the Internet will be found and held accountable.Children must be protected from sexual exploitation, and we remain committed to investigating the production and distribution of child pornography, said Special Agent in Charge Langenberg. Todays sentencing reflects the FBIs persistent declaration to those who advertise, distribute, possess and trade child pornography, that we will look for you and we will find you.Kirk Cottom, 45, of Rochester, New York, pleaded guilty on Aug. 3, 2015, to receiving and accessing with intent to view child pornography before Senior U.S. District Judge Joseph F. Bataillon of the District of Nebraska.In connection with his guilty plea, Cottom admitted that in November 2012, he accessed images of child sexual exploitation via a website then operating in Omaha. The website was accessible only through the Tor network, an Internet application specifically designed to facilitate anonymous communication. The websites users employed advanced technological means in order to undermine law enforcements attempts to identify them. In addition to accessing this website, Cottoms personal computer contained more than 600 child exploitation images and contained evidence of significant Internet activity showing access to child pornography websites on the Tor network.NoneThe 17 other individuals previously convicted and sentenced in connection with their respective illegal activity on one of those websites are:NoneThe FBIs Omaha Field Office and the FBIs Violent Crimes against Children Section, Major Case Coordination Unit and Digital Analysis and Research Center led the investigation of this case. Europol, the European Unions law enforcement agency, as well as members of the FBIs Violent Crimes Against Children International Task Force, assisted in the investigation. Trial Attorney Keith Becker of CEOS and Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael P. Norris of the District of Nebraska prosecuted this case.