A Detroit-area medical doctor who referred Medicare beneficiaries for home health services in exchange for illegal cash kickbacks as part of a $3.6 million home health care fraud scheme pleaded guilty today for his role in the scheme.Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Barbara L. McQuade of the Eastern District of Michigan, Special Agent in Charge Paul M. Abbate of the FBIs Detroit Field Office and Special Agent in Charge Lamont Pugh III of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General (HHS-OIG) Chicago Regional Office made the announcement.Kutub Mesiwala, 64, of Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge George Caram Steeh of the Eastern District of Michigan to one count of conspiracy to commit health care fraud. A sentencing hearing is set for Oct. 5, 2015.According to admissions in his plea agreement, Mesiwala referred patients to Detroit-area home health agency Advance Home Health Care Services Inc. (Advance) and other home health care agencies in exchange for cash kickbacks. Advances owner, Amer Ehsan, pleaded guilty on July 24, 2014, to fraudulently billing Medicare for $3.6 million in home health services that were not medically necessary or not provided through Advance. Ehsan is awaiting sentencing.Mesiwala admitted that Medicare paid a total of $770,668.31 to Advance and $118,375.81 to other home health care companies for fraudulent claims based on his referrals.This case is being investigated by the FBI and HHS-OIG, and was brought as part of the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, under the supervision of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of Michigan. This case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Katharine A. Wagner of the Fraud Section.Since its inception in March 2007, the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, now operating in nine cities across the country, has charged nearly 2,100 defendants who have collectively billed the Medicare program for more than $6.5 billion. In addition, the HHS Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, working in conjunction with the HHS-OIG, are taking steps to increase accountability and decrease the presence of fraudulent providers.None