  Pharmaceutical manufacturer Abbott Laboratories Inc. was sentenced by U.S. District Court Judge Samuel G. Wilson of the Western District of Virginia in connection with its guilty plea related to its unlawful promotion of the prescription drug Depakote for uses not approved as safe and effective by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) the Justice Department announced today.   Abbott, which was ordered to pay a criminal fine in the amount of $500 million, plus a forfeiture of $198.5 million, and $1.5 million to the Virginia Medicaid Fraud Control Unit, will also be subject to a five-year term of probation. None   Under the terms of the plea agreement, Abbott agreed to pay the second-largest criminal fine for a single drug, executed a fulsome statement of facts (with exhibits) revealing the extent of its unlawful conduct, admitted that it engaged in misleading statements, and submitted to a five-year term of probation.   Under the terms of its probation, on an annual basis, Abbotts CEO and board of directors will need to personally certify that the company is complying with the law.   Abbotts guilty plea was part of a global resolution involving its illegal promotional activity.   Abbott also entered into a civil settlement agreement under which it agreed to pay $800 million to the federal government and the states to resolve claims that its unlawful marketing and illegal remuneration practices caused false claims to be submitted to government healthcare programs.   The parallel civil settlement covered a broader range of conduct by Abbott.   The settlement resolved allegations that in addition to off-label marketing for dementia and schizophrenia, Abbott also marketed Depakote for other psychiatric conditions in adults, including depression, anxiety, obsessive-compulsive disorder,   post-traumatic stress disorder, alcohol and drug withdrawal and psychiatric conditions in children, including conduct disorders, attention deficit disorder and autism.     In addition to the criminal and civil resolutions, Abbott also agreed to enter into an expansive 5-year corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS-OIG) that requires enhanced accountability, increased transparency, and wide-ranging monitoring activities conducted by both internal and independent external reviewers.      Todays sentencing confirms that the resolution we reached with Abbott in May is the right result. And it emphasizes the importance of the U.S. governments coordinated efforts to combat health care fraud.   We expect companies to make honest, lawful claims about the drugs they sell, we will be vigorous in our enforcement efforts when they break the law, and the courts will hold them accountable. said Stuart F. Delery, Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Civil Division.None  Abbott unlawfully targeted a vulnerable population, the elderly, through its off-label promotion.   The courts sentence makes clear that those who engage in such conduct will be prosecuted and held accountable, said Timothy Heaphy, U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Virginia.   None