  Nine members of a violent, armed, outlaw motorcycle gang were indicted and arrested today, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney Barbara L. McQuade of the Eastern District of Michigan.  The nine individuals are members of the Phantom Outlaw Motorcycle Club, which is headquartered in northwest Detroit and has chapters throughout Michigan, Ohio, and Kentucky. According to court records, the club and its members are allegedly involved in a range of criminal activity including murder and attempted murder, robbery, narcotics trafficking, the possession and sale of stolen motor vehicles and motorcycles, and witness intimidation.  The indictment charged the following individuals:  Antonio Johnson, 39, of Detroit, charged with conspiracy to commit murder in aid of racketeering, assault with a dangerous weapon in aid of racketeering, conspiracy to commit assault with a dangerous weapon in aid of racketeering, use and carry of firearms during and in relation to a crime of violence, and felon in possession of firearms.  Marvin Nicholson, 45, of Detroit, charged with conspiracy to commit murder in aid of racketeering, assault with a dangerous weapon in aid of racketeering, conspiracy to commit assault with a dangerous weapon in aid of racketeering, use and carry of firearms during and in relation to a crime of violence, assault of federal officers, and felon in possession of firearms.  Raynard Brown, 37, of Detroit, charged with conspiracy to commit murder in aid of racketeering, assault with a dangerous weapon in aid of racketeering, conspiracy to commit assault with a dangerous weapon in aid of racketeering, and use and carry of firearms during and in relation to a crime of violence.  Christopher Odum, 28, of Detroit, charged with conspiracy to commit murder in aid of racketeering.  Roger Valdez, 28, of Pontiac, Mich., charged with conspiracy to commit murder in aid of racketeering, assault with a dangerous weapon in aid of racketeering, conspiracy to commit assault with a dangerous weapon in aid of racketeering, and use and carry of firearms during and in relation to a crime of violence.  Brian Sorrell, 27, of Detroit, charged with conspiracy to commit murder in aid of racketeering, assault with a dangerous weapon in aid of racketeering, conspiracy to commit assault with a dangerous weapon in aid of racketeering, and use and carry of firearms during and in relation to a crime of violence.  Brian Jackson, 46, of Detroit, charged with conspiracy to commit murder in aid of racketeering.  Two additional individuals, known at this time only by their club nicknames, have been charged with conspiracy to commit murder in aid of racketeering.  The details contained in the indictment are allegations. The defendants are presumed to be innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.  The arrests were made as part of the Detroit One Initiative, a collaborative effort between law enforcement and the community to reduce homicide and other violent crime in Detroit, and through the lead efforts of the CVRP (Comprehensive Violence Reduction Partnership) Task Force, which consists of representatives of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; Detroit Police Department; Michigan State Police; Michigan Department of Corrections; and the FBI. By working collaboratively, local, state, and federal law enforcement is striving to maximize its ability to identify and arrest the persons and groups initiating the violence in Detroit. This indictment is a tangible and significant result of this joint effort.  The case is being prosecuted by the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of Michigan in Detroit.