Childrens Hospital, Childrens National Medical Center Inc. and its affiliated entities (collectively CNMC) have agreed to pay $12.9 million to resolve allegations that they violated the False Claims Act by submitting false cost reports and other applications to the components and contractors of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), as well as to Virginia and District of Columbia Medicaid programs, the Department of Justice announced today. CNMC is based in Washington, D.C., and provides pediatric care throughout the metropolitan region.The false reporting alleged in todays settlement deprived the Medicare Trust Fund of millions of taxpayers dollars, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer of the Justice Departments Civil Division. Such conduct wastes critical federal health care program funds and drives up the costs of health care for all of us.The integrity of federal health care programs depends on honest and accurate reporting from the hospitals and other health care providers that receive hundreds of billions of tax dollars every year, said Acting U.S. Attorney Vincent H. Cohen Jr. of the District of Columbia. This settlement demonstrates our commitment to defending the integrity of the system and ensuring that taxpayer money goes to meet the most critical health care needs. We will continue to work with whistleblowers like the former employee who came forward in this case to battle waste, fraud and abuse that fuel the skyrocketing cost of health care.NoneNoneThis settlement illustrates the governments emphasis on combating health care fraud and marks another achievement for the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT) initiative, which was announced in May 2009 by the Attorney General and the Secretary of Health and Human Services. The partnership between the two departments has focused efforts to reduce and prevent Medicare and Medicaid financial fraud through enhanced cooperation. One of the most powerful tools in this effort is the False Claims Act. Since January 2009, the Justice Department has recovered a total of more than $24.3 billion through False Claims Act cases, with more than $15.3 billion of that amount recovered in cases involving fraud against federal health care programs.This matter was handled by the U.S. Attorneys Office of the District of Columbia with assistance from the Civil Divisions Commercial Litigation Branch and the HHS Office of Inspector General.NoneThe claims resolved by the settlement are allegations only, and there has been no determination of liability.