  Boston Scientific Corp. and its subsidiaries, Guidant LLC, Guidant Sales LLC and Cardiac Pacemakers Inc. (Guidant), have agreed to pay $30 million to settle allegations that, between 2002 and 2005, Guidant knowingly sold defective heart devices to health care facilities that in turn implanted the devices into Medicare patients, the Justice Department announced today. Boston Scientific acquired Guidant, a medical device manufacturer, in 2006.   Medicare patients who depend on cardiac defibrillators should not have to worry about whether their devices will work when they are needed, said Stuart F. Delery, Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Civil Division. This settlement, along with the prior criminal prosecution of Guidant, demonstrates that there will be significant consequences when companies engage in conduct that threatens health and safety and violates the law.   The Guidant devices at issue are implantable defibrillators, used in patients at risk of cardiac arrest due to an irregular heartbeat. The devices are surgically implanted into patients chests, and when the devices detect an irregular heartbeat, they send an electrical pulse to the heart to shock it back to its normal rhythm. The governments complaint alleged that two lines of implantable cardiac devices manufactured and sold by Guidant, known as the Prizm 2 and the Renewal 1 and 2, contained a defect that resulted in arcing. Arcing occurs when the device detects the irregular heartbeat and delivers a shock, but instead of the current traveling to the heart, the current arcs back to the device itself. This causes the device to short circuit, rendering the device ineffective. None   The United States is fortunate that innovative health care companies regularly develop and market remarkable medical devices that improve patients lives, said John R. Marti, Acting U.S. Attorney for the District of Minnesota. But in this case, Guidant valued profits more than patient safety by selling defective cardiac defibrillators. This office, along with several other components within the U.S. Department of Justice, will continue to vigorously investigate and take appropriate action against health care companies that place public safety at risk. None   This settlement illustrates the governments emphasis on combating health care fraud and marks another achievement for the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT) initiative, which was announced in May 2009 by Attorney General Eric Holder and Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius. The partnership between the two departments has focused efforts to reduce and prevent Medicare and Medicaid financial fraud through enhanced cooperation. One of the most powerful tools in this effort is the False Claims Act. Since January 2009, the Justice Department has recovered a total of more than $16.7 billion through False Claims Act cases, with more than $11.9 billion of that amount recovered in cases involving fraud against federal health care programs.   This matter was handled by the Justice Departments Civil Division, Commercial Litigation Branch and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Minnesota, with assistance from the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General and Office of General Counsel and the FDAs Office of Criminal Investigations and Office of Chief Counsel. None 