  WASHINGTON  Mark J. Titus, former Chief Operations Officer of Garner Services Ltd. (GSL), and his brother-in-law Dominick Fazzio, have been charged in a second superseding indictment returned today by a federal grand jury in New Orleans for defrauding GSL of over $1 million, announced Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Justice Departments Criminal Division.  The 32-count indictment returned today in U.S. District Court in New Orleans charges Titus and Fazzio with conspiracy, mail fraud, wire fraud, money laundering and tax charges for participating in the fraud scheme. Fazzio has also been charged with a separate tax fraud scheme.  According to the second superseding indictment, between approximately May 2008 and approximately May 2011, Titus and Fazzio defrauded GSL, a construction management company based in Pascagoula, Miss., by creating and submitting fraudulent invoices for services never rendered on construction projects managed by GSL, causing payments to be made from GSL to two companies owned by Fazzio. The two defendants then allegedly laundered the money by engaging in a series of financial transactions for the purpose of concealing the illegal nature of the payments. According to the second superseding indictment, Titus and Fazzio also submitted false tax returns by improperly deducting the disbursement of their fraudulently obtained money as legitimate business activity and failing to report the money received from the fraud scheme as taxable income.  In addition, Fazzio is charged in connection with a tax fraud scheme perpetrated with Hendrikus Ton, the owner of Abes Boat Rentals in Belle Chase, La., and two other companies that provide services to offshore oil production facilities. Fazzio and Ton allegedly conspired to under-report income paid to employees of Tons by transferring taxable income from Abe's Boat Rentals to a dormant company, improperly deducting that money as legitimate business activity and using that money to pay employees of Abes Boat Rentals in order to conceal the actual amount of income paid to the employees, thereby reducing the tax liability of Tons companies by over $3.5 million. According to the second superseding indictment, Fazzio prepared the tax returns for Tons companies and willfully omitted wages paid out of the dormant company.None  The case is being prosecuted by Deputy Chief Peter Koski and Trial Attorneys Brian Lichter and Menaka Kalaskar of the Criminal Divisions Public Integrity Section, as well as Assistant U.S. Attorney Gregory Kennedy of the Eastern District of Louisiana. The case is being investigated by the FBI and the New Orleans Office of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation Division.