None   The Tax Divisions primary purpose is to enforce the nations tax laws fully, fairly, and consistently, through both criminal and civil litigation. Some of the divisions accomplishments from the past fiscal year (FY 2012) include: None None None None None   As honest taxpayers prepare to meet their filing obligations by April 15, they should know that we are committed to enforcing the tax laws against those who would cheat on their responsibilities, said Assistant Attorney General Kathryn Keneally. The department will continue to use all available law enforcement tools to recover tax revenue and to punish tax offenders.   The IRS and Department of Justice have made significant strides in recent months to combat tax fraud, identity theft, and offshore tax evasion, said IRS Acting Commissioner Steven T. Miller. We appreciate the Justice Departments strong support and cooperation to protect the interests of the nations taxpayers. NoneNone  The Tax Division has supervisory authority over all criminal conduct involving federal tax laws. The Division has always maintained as a central focus the investigation and prosecution of tax crimes, including tax evasion, failure to file returns, submission of false tax returns, and other conduct designed to violate federal tax laws. Tax Division attorneys are also particularly adept at prosecuting tax defiersthose individuals who purposefully refuse to comply with the tax laws and use frivolous arguments to support their positions.   Some of the Tax Divisions criminal tax prosecution highlights from the past year include: None None None None None NoneNone  The Tax Division plays a critical role in the government's efforts to combat abusive tax shelters.These cases involve more than a billion dollars in tax revenue, and affect billions more owed by other taxpayers.In recent years, the divisions civil litigators at both the trial and appellate levels have won important victories in cases involving tax shelters with names such as Son of BOSS, BLIPS, CARDS, DAD and SILO/LILO.   Some of the divisions successes this year include: None NoneNone NoneNoneNone None   Some highlights from the division and the U.S. Attorneys Offices includes: None  None None NoneNoneNone   Some highlights of the Tax Divisions success prosecuting perpetrators of identity theft over the past year include: None None None None None NoneNoneNone None