The Justice Department announced today that it has filed a lawsuit alleging that Douglas S. Waterbury, a residential property owner and landlord in the Oswego, New York, area subjected female tenants and potential tenants to egregious sexual harassment in violation of the Fair Housing Act. Along with Douglas Waterbury, the Departments complaint names his wife and business partner, Carol A. Waterbury, and two residential property companies, Ontario Realty Inc. and E&A Management Co., as defendants.The complaint, filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of New York, alleges that since at least 1990, Douglas Waterbury has sexually harassed numerous women who have lived in or inquired about the defendants residential rental properties. The suit alleges that Waterburys conduct has included demanding or pressuring female tenants and potential tenants to engage in sex acts with him in order to obtain or keep rental housing; subjecting female tenants and potential tenants to unwelcome sexual contact and groping; offering to grant tangible housing benefits, such as reduced rent or deposit payments, in exchange for sex acts; refusing needed maintenance services or otherwise taking adverse housing actions against female tenants who refused his harassment; and making unwelcome sexual comments and advances. The conduct alleged in this complaint is egregious, ranging from demands to exchange sex for rent, to unwanted sexual encounters.NoneThe complaint alleges severe, pervasive sexual harassment, including pressure to engage in sexual activity to obtain or keep rental housing and unwelcome sexual contact with actual and prospective female tenants, said Grant C. Jaquith, United States Attorney for the Northern District of New York.We are committed to the full and fair application of the Fair Housing Act to give meaning to its protection of renters from unlawful discrimination. Housing cannot be conditioned on submission to sexual harassment.NoneThe Justice Department has filed or settled nine sexual harassment cases and has recovered over $1.6 million for victims of sexual harassment in housing since Jan. 20, 2017.Todays lawsuit seeks monetary damages to compensate the victims, civil penalties, and a court order barring future discrimination. The complaint contains allegations of unlawful conduct. The allegations must be proven in federal court.NoneNone