WASHINGTON  The Department of Justice today filed denaturalization lawsuits against five individuals who, according to the Departments complaints, unlawfully procured their United States citizenship by concealing their sexual abuse of minor victims during the naturalization process. The civil complaints were filed in federal court in the Eastern District of California, the District of Maryland, the Middle District of North Carolina, and the Southern District of Texas (two cases). Those who wish to become American citizens ought to respect our laws and seek citizenship lawfully and honestly, said Attorney General Jeff Sessions. Anyone who lies, misleads, or omits critical information in an attempt to evade the requirements for naturalization undermines the credibility of our nations generous lawful immigration system. This Justice Department will continue to seek out fraudsters and bring them to justice by obtaining orders revoking their naturalized citizenship. The cases were referred to the Department of Justice by the Department of Homeland Securitys U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) with investigative support from U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. ICE is committed to collaborating with our sister agencies within DHS to target individuals who conceal illicit activities in order to obtain U.S. citizenship, said ICE Deputy Director Thomas D. Homan. When special agents identify a child predator, exploiting the most innocent among us, and other criminals who have defrauded the U.S. immigration system for naturalization benefits, then ICE will move to have their citizenship revoked. Under the Immigration and Nationality Act, the citizenship of a naturalized U.S. citizen may be revoked, and his or her certificate of naturalization canceled, if such naturalization was illegally procured or procured by concealment of a material fact or by willful misrepresentation. The five defendants committed crimes of sexual abuse of minor victims prior to naturalizing. As the civil complaints allege, such crimes rendered the defendants ineligible for citizenship at the time they naturalized. By willfully concealing child sexual abuse crimes, the defendants also independently rendered themselves subject to denaturalization. A description of each of the five cases and the allegations of the United States follows: Ricardo De Leon None Christian Oribello Eguilos None Carlos Noe Gallegos None Alwin Farouk Gariba None Moises Javier Lopez None These cases were investigated by ICE, CBP, and the Civil Divisions Office of Immigration Litigation, District Court Section (OIL-DCS). These cases are being prosecuted by OIL-DCS and its National Security and Affirmative Litigation Unit (NS/A Unit) with support from the U.S. Attorneys Offices for the Eastern District of California, the District of Maryland, the Middle District of North Carolina, and the Southern District of Texas. The claims made in the complaints are allegations only, and there have been no determinations of liability. 