  WASHINGTON  The national president and three members of the American Outlaw Association (Outlaws) motorcycle gang have been found guilty of participating in a violent criminal organization by a federal jury in the Eastern District of Virginia.     U.S. Attorney Neil H. MacBride of the Eastern District of Virginia; Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Criminal Division; and Edgar A. Domenech, Special Agent in Charge of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) Washington Field Division announced the verdict after it was accepted by U.S. District Judge Henry E. Hudson.   Todays conviction of the Outlaws national president strikes a crippling blow to his violent motorcycle gang, said U.S. Attorney MacBride.  Riding a Harley doesnt make you a criminal  but you cross the line when your motorcycle gang engages in violent criminal activity as a way of doing business.  Virginia is a safe place today because ATF agents put their lives on the line to bring this case.  Thanks to their sacrifice, the leadership of this gang has been brought to justice, along with the enforcers who carried out his orders.   Today, a Virginia jury struck back against the violence that the Outlaws motorcycle gang has been spreading in our communities, said Assistant Attorney General Breuer. In obtaining convictions against the gangs national president and other members, the Justice Department is sending a strong message to organized criminal enterprises of all stripes that we will not allow them to operate without repercussion. We are committed to bringing significant prosecutions against the leaders of the countrys most notorious and violent groups.   This investigation would not have been a success without the dedicated and hard working agents and prosecutors that devoted several years to this undercover operation, said ATF Special Agent in Charge Edgar Domenech. This is another example of how our agents work day in and day out to build cases against violent criminals. None   The other members of the Outlaws who were convicted today include:  Also today, Dennis Haldermann, aka Chew Chew, 46, a member of the Pagans Motorcycle Club from Chesterfield, Va., was acquitted of a violence in aid of racketeering charge.     Sentencing for Rosga, Fiel, McCall and Timbers is scheduled for April 8, 2011.   Evidence at trial showed that the Outlaws motorcycle gang is a highly organized criminal enterprise with a defined, multi-level chain of command that is ultimately overseen by Rosga, the national president.  Leaders and members of the Outlaws in multiple states including Wisconsin, Maine, Montana, North Carolina, Tennessee, South Carolina and Virginia are charged in a June 2010 indictment.  Under Rosgas leadership, the enterprise is alleged to have engaged in violent racketeering activities with the intent to expand its influence and to control various parts of the country against rival motorcycle gangs, particularly the Hells Angels.   According to evidence at trial, the Outlaws planned multiple acts of violence against rival motorcycle gangs, including shows of force at the Cycle Expo in Henrico County, Va., in 2006; Dinwiddie Racetrack in Virginia in 2008; the Cockades Bar in Petersburg, Va., in 2009; Daytona Bike Week in Florida in 2009; and the Easyrider Bike Expo in Charlotte, N.C., in 2010.  The indictment alleges that in the Cockades Bar show of force, members of the Pagans Motorcycle Club joined the Outlaws in the assault against rival gangs.   In addition, the evidence at trial showed that in 2008, the Outlaws established a clubhouse in Rock Hill, S.C., in territory traditionally controlled by the Hells Angels.  The Outlaws understood that this act would create violent friction between the two organizations.     Evidence at trial also established that in September 2009, two members of the Outlaws were assaulted in Connecticut by members of the Hells Angels.  This caused the Outlaws to increase their already violent approach to the Hells Angels in retaliation.  In October 2009, this led to the alleged attempted murder of a Hells Angels member outside the Hells Angels clubhouse in Canaan, Maine.  The victim was seriously injured from gunshot wounds to his neck.     In addition, the evidence showed that on April 17, 2010, Outlaw members of the Milwaukee and other Wisconsin chapters in the Gold Region, participated in a charitable event known as the Flood Run, crossing from Wisconsin into Minnesota where they brutally beat members of the Hells Angels and stole their club patches, also known as colors.   Witnesses at the trial also testified that the Outlaws regularly used and distributed narcotics and regularly used firearms or other dangers weapons.   The four men convicted today are among 27 individuals indicted in June 2010 as a result of a long-term investigation into criminal activities of the Outlaws motorcycle gang.  To date, 17 of those indicted have pleaded guilty and one was previously convicted in an earlier trial.   The case was investigated by the ATFs Washington Field Division; the FBIs Washington Field Office; the Virginia State Police; the Chesterfield County Police Department; the Maine State Police, and numerous other law enforcement partners throughout the country.  The prosecution was handled by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Dennis Fitzpatrick and Peter S. Duffey, Special Assistant U.S. Attorney Sam Kaplan, and Trial Attorney Theryn G. Gibbons of the Justice Departments Criminal Divisions Gang Unit.     