  Fourteen hospitals located in New York, Mississippi, North Carolina, Washington, Indiana, Missouri and Florida have agreed to pay the United States a total of more than $12 million to settle allegations that the health care facilities submitted false claims to Medicare, the Justice Department announced today.      The settling facilities include the following: Plainview Hospital, Plainview, N.Y. ($2,307,265); North Shore Syosset Hospital, Syosset, N.Y. ($192,735); North Mississippi Medical Center, Tupelo, Miss. ($1,894,683.30); Mission Hospital, Asheville, N.C. ($1.5 million); Wenatchee Valley Medical Center, Wenatchee, Wash. ($1,224,709.96); Community Hospital Anderson, Anderson, Ind. ($500,561.36); St. Johns Mercy Hospital, Creve Coeur, Mo. ($365,000); Gulf Coast Hospital, Fort Myers, Fla. ($173,005.86); Lee Memorial Hospital, Fort Myers, Fla. ($159,571.87); and Cape Coral Hospital, Cape Coral, Fla. ($73,279.47). Four hospitals affiliated with Adventist Health System/Sunbelt Inc. in Florida will pay a total of $3.9 million, and these include Florida Hospital Orlando, Florida Hospital-Oceanside, Florida Hospital Fish Memorial and Florida Hospital Heartland Medical Center.     The settlements resolve allegations that these hospitals overcharged Medicare between 2000 and 2008 when performing kyphoplasty, a minimally-invasive procedure used to treat certain spinal fractures that often are due to osteoporosis. In many cases, the procedure can be performed safely as a less costly outpatient procedure, but the government contends that the hospitals performed the procedure on an inpatient basis in order to increase their Medicare billings.      Patients want reassurance that their health care provider is making treatment decisions based on the patients best interests, not an interest in maximizing profits, said Tony West, Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Civil Division. By recovering taxpayer dollars lost to improper billing, this settlement will help support the vital public health care programs we depend on. None  The Justice Department has now reached settlements with more than 40 hospitals totaling over $39 million to resolve false claims allegations related to kyphoplasty claims submitted to Medicare. These settlements follow the governments 2008 settlement with Medtronic Spine LLC, corporate successor to Kyphon Inc., which paid $75 million to settle allegations that the company defrauded Medicare by counseling hospital providers to perform kyphoplasty procedures as an inpatient procedure even though the minimally-invasive procedure should have been done in many cases on an outpatient basis.   These hospitals put profits ahead of sound medical judgment, making decisions based on a desire to maximize Medicare reimbursement rather than on individualized assessments of medical necessity, said William J. Hochul Jr., U.S. Attorney for the Western District of New York in Buffalo. The U.S. Attorneys Office is committed to protecting the Medicare program by ensuring that medicine, and not financial profit, is used to determine the best course of medical care in all cases.    None None  This resolution is part of the governments emphasis on combating health care fraud and another step for the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT) initiative, which was announced by Attorney General Eric Holder and Kathleen Sebelius, Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services in May 2009. The partnership between the two departments has focused efforts to reduce and prevent Medicare and Medicaid financial fraud through enhanced cooperation. One of the most powerful tools in that effort is the False Claims Act, which the Justice Department has used to recover more than $6.6 billion since January 2009 in cases involving fraud against federal health care programs. The Justice Departments total recoveries in False Claims Act cases since January 2009 are more than $8.8 billion.   The settlement with these hospitals was the result of a coordinated effort among the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Western District of New York, the Commercial Litigation Branch of the Justice Departments Civil Division, and the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General and Office of Counsel to the Inspector General.   