NoneNone  Todays verdict demonstrates our commitment to hold accountable not only terrorist operatives, but also those who facilitate their activities.   As established at trial, Tahawwur Rana provided valuable cover and support to David Headley, knowing that Headley and others were plotting terror attacks overseas, said Todd Hinnen, Acting Assistant Attorney General for National Security. We will not rest in our efforts to identify and bring to justice those who provide support to terrorists.  The message should be clear to all those who help terrorists  we will bring to justice all those who seek to facilitate violence, said Patrick J. Fitzgerald, U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois.   The effort to combat terrorism and bring justice to the victims is a global effort, requiring the cooperation and collaboration of many countries and many people.   We are grateful for our role and that of the Chicago Joint Terrorism Task Force in bringing some measure of justice, said Robert D. Grant, Special Agent-in-Charge of the Chicago Office of the FBI.None  The six remaining defendants are all believed to be in Pakistan.  Headley testified that he attended training camps in Pakistan operated by Lashkar, a designated foreign terrorist organization, on five separate occasions between 2002 and 2005.   In late 2005, Headley received instructions from members of Lashkar to travel to India to conduct surveillance, which he did five times leading up to the Mumbai attacks three years later that killed more than 160 people and wounded hundreds more.  In the early summer of 2006, Headley and two Lashkar members discussed opening an immigration office in Mumbai as a cover for his surveillance activities.   Headley testified that he traveled to Chicago and advised Rana, his long-time friend since the time they attended high school together in Pakistan, of his assignment to scout potential targets in India.   Headley obtained approval from Rana, who owned First World Immigration Services in Chicago and elsewhere, to open a First World office in Mumbai as cover for his activities.   Rana directed an individual associated with First World to prepare documents supporting Headleys cover story of opening a First World office in Mumbai, and advised Headley how to obtain a visa for travel to India, according to Headleys testimony, as well as emails and other documents that corroborated his account.  Starting Nov. 26, 2008, and continuing through Nov. 28, 2008, 10 attackers trained by Lashkar carried out multiple assaults with firearms, grenades and improvised explosive devices against multiple targets in Mumbai, including the Taj Mahal and Oberoi hotels, the Leopold Caf, the Chabad House and the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus train station, each of which Headley had scouted in advance.   The six Americans killed during the three-day siege were Ben Zion Chroman, Gavriel Holtzberg, Sandeep Jeswani, Alan Scherr, his daughter Naomi Scherr and Aryeh Leibish Teitelbaum.None  In late 2008 and early 2009, after reviewing with Rana how he had performed surveillance of the targets attacked in Mumbai, Headley testified that he advised Rana of the planned attack on the Danish newspaper and his intended travel to Denmark to conduct surveillance of its facilities.   Headley obtained Ranas approval and assistance to identify himself as a representative of First World and gain access to the newspapers offices by falsely expressing interest in placing advertising for First World in the newspaper.   Before departing Chicago, Headley and Rana caused business cards to be made that identified Headley as a representative of the Immigration Law Center, the business name of First World, according to the evidence at trial.None  The government is being represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Daniel Collins, Victoria J. Peters and Sarah Streicker, with assistance from the Counterterrorism Section of the Justice Departments National Security Division.   Federal prosecutors in Los Angeles are working jointly with their counterparts in Chicago on the broader investigation into the Mumbai attacks.   The investigation has been conducted by the Chicago Joint Terrorism Task Force, led by the Chicago Office of the FBI, with assistance from the FBI offices in Los Angeles and Washington, D.C., as well as both U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Office of Homeland Security Investigations.