Defendant Admitted to Shooting and Killing an Individual Believed to Be a Rival Gang MemberA Hyattsville, Maryland, man pleaded guilty today, just before trial, to conspiracy to participate in a racketeering enterprise known as La Mara Salvatrucha, or MS-13, including participating in a murder.Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division; U.S. Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein of the District of Maryland; Special Agent in Charge Andre R. Watson of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcements (ICE) Homeland Security Investigations (HSI); Chief Hank Stawinski of the Prince Georges County, Maryland, Police Department; Chief Douglas Holland of the Hyattsville Police Department; and Prince Georges County States Attorney Angela D. Alsobrooks made the announcement.Luis Guzman-Ventura, aka Casper, 22, pleaded guilty before Senior U.S. District Judge Roger W. Titus of the District of Maryland to conspiracy to participate in a racketeering enterprise. He is scheduled to be sentenced on Jan. 4, 2017.MS-13 is a national and transnational gang with branches or cliques operating throughout the United States, including in Prince Georges County, Montgomery County and Frederick County, Maryland. In pleading guilty, Guzman-Ventura admitted that he was a member of MS-13 and and associate of the MS-13 Weedons Clique.According to his plea agreement, from at least 2010 through 2013, Guzman-Ventura conspired with members and associates of MS-13 to engage in crimes to further the interests of the gang, including murder, assault, robbery, extortion by threat of violence, obstruction of justice, witness tampering and witness retaliation.Specifically, Guzman-Ventura admitted that on Dec. 5, 2012, he was the front-seat passenger in a vehicle being driven by another MS-13 member, Jose Rodriguez-Nunez,and Guzman-Ventura shot at three individuals believed to be rival gang members, killing one and wounding another. After the shooting, Rodriguez-Nunez and Guzman-Ventura fled the scene to avoid being identified, according to their plea agreements.Rodriguez-Nunez, aka Killer, 27, also of Hyattsville, previously pleaded guilty to being the driver in this drive-by shooting and is scheduled to be sentenced on Jan. 9, 2017. Guzman-Ventura and Rodriguez-Nunez remain detained pending sentencing.In total, 10 defendants have pleaded guilty and three have been convicted at trial for their roles in the racketeering conspiracy.None