  WASHINGTON  Dover Chemical Corporation has agreed to pay $1.4 million in civil penalties for the unauthorized manufacture of chemical substances at facilities in Dover, Ohio, and Hammond, Ind., the Department of Justice and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced today. The settlement resolves violations of the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) premanufacture notice obligations for Dover Chemicals production of various chlorinated paraffins. Dover Chemical produces the vast majority of the chlorinated paraffin products sold in the United States.  As part of the settlement, Dover Chemical has ceased manufacturing short-chain chlorinated paraffins, which have persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic (PBT) characteristics. PBTs pose a number of health risks, particularly for children, including genetic impacts, effects on the nervous system and cancer. Dover Chemical will also submit premanufacture notices to EPA for various medium-chain and long-chain chlorinated paraffin products.  This settlement will require Dover to participate in an EPA review of all types of chlorinated paraffin products sold by the company and bring Dover into compliance with the Toxic Substances Control Act, said Ignacia S. Moreno, Assistant Attorney General for the Environment and Natural Resources Division of the Department of Justice. By halting production of short-chain chlorinated paraffins, this settlement will reduce undue risks to human health and the environment.None  In 1978, EPA compiled the initial TSCA Inventory of chemical substances from industry submissions and those substances were grandfathered onto the TSCA Inventory without additional human health or environmental review. Chemical substances not on the TSCA Inventory constitute new chemical substances for which a premanufacture notice (PMN) must be submitted to EPA at least 90 days before a company begins producing the substance. A PMN includes information such as the specific chemical identity, use, anticipated production volume, exposure and release information and existing available test data. EPA identifies risks associated with new chemicals through the PMN process. In the PMN process, EPA can require additional testing or issue orders prohibiting or limiting the production or commercial use of such substances.  The proposed settlement agreement, lodged in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, is subject to a 30-day public comment period and approval by the federal court.None