  WASHINGTON  Jean Rene Duperval, a former director of international relations for Telecommunications DHaiti S.A.M. (Haiti Teleco), a Haitian state-owned telecommunications company, was sentenced today to nine years in prison for his role in a scheme to launder bribes paid to him by two Miami-based telecommunications companies.  The sentence was announced by Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Justice Departments Criminal Division; U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Florida Wifredo A. Ferrer; and Special Agent in Charge Jose A. Gonzalez of Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI), Miami Field Office.None  Dupervals money laundering scheme was an attempt to conceal the payment of bribes to foreign officials to obtain an unfair business advantage in the marketplace, said U.S. Attorney Ferrer. Todays sentence, however, helps level the playing field for all legitimate businesses that honestly compete in the marketplace for foreign or domestic business.  IRS Criminal Investigation continues to expand its international efforts to aggressively investigate those individuals who engage in money laundering and bribery schemes, said IRS-CI Special Agent in Charge Gonzalez. Individuals involved in corrupt international endeavors, as uncovered in this case, will get caught and this sentencing should serve as a strong warning to those considering similar conduct.  Duperval was the director of international relations for Haiti Teleco, the sole provider of land line telephone service in Haiti. According to the evidence presented at trial, two Miami-based telecommunications companies had a series of contracts with Haiti Teleco that allowed the companies customers to place telephone calls to Haiti.None  Duperval was the seventh defendant involved in the corruption scheme to be sentenced, which includes the following individuals:  In a second superseding indictment, Washington Vasconez Cruz, Amadeus Richers and Cecilia Zurita were charged in a related scheme to commit foreign bribery and money laundering from December 2001 through January 2006. The defendants are fugitives. An indictment is merely an accusation, and defendants are presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.  The Department of Justice is grateful to the government of Haiti for continuing to provide substantial assistance in gathering evidence during this investigation. In particular, Haitis financial intelligence unit, the Unit Centrale de Renseignements Financiers (UCREF), the Bureau des Affaires Financires et Economiques (BAFE), which is a specialized component of the Haitian National Police, and the Ministry of Justice and Public Security provided significant cooperation and coordination in this ongoing investigation.None  The case is being prosecuted by Assistant Chief James M. Koukios and Trial Attorney Daniel S. Kahn of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section. The Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs also provided assistance in this matter. These cases were investigated by the IRS-CI Miami Field Office.