U.S. District Judge David M. Lawson, of the Eastern District of Michigan, entered a consent decree of permanent injunction against Ann Arbor, Michigan-based Green Hope LLC, dba Rosewood Products, and its president, Phil G. Ye, the Justice Department announced today. The company manufactures and sells ready-to-eat organic tofu and soy milk products to businesses in Michigan and Minnesota, including organic supermarket chains. As alleged in the complaint filed against the company and Ye, numerous Food and Drug Administration (FDA) inspections since 2009 found persistent violations at the companys manufacturing facility involving insanitary conditions. FDAs inspections found that Green Hope did not store food properly, did not address employee cleanliness issues, permitted waste water to come into contact with tofu during processing and failed to clean all food-contact surfaces and equipment. These violations raised the possibility of contamination of the companys food products. The consent decree orders Green Hope and Ye to take a wide range of actions to correct the violations and ensure that they do not happen again. Among other actions, Green Hope must develop and implement sanitation control programs; provide FDA the opportunity to inspect the facilities to assure Green Hopes compliance with the consent decree, the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, and applicable regulations; and receive written authorization from FDA to resume operations. Green Hope must also make structural repairs to its facility necessary to protect against contamination of raw ingredients, in-process and finished articles of food, containers and packaging materials. None This case was litigated by Dan Baeza of the Consumer Protection Branch in the Department of Justices Civil Division in conjunction with Assistant U.S. Attorney Peter A. Caplan of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of Michigan and Christopher Fanelli of the FDAs Office of Chief Counsel. The case was investigated by the FDAs Detroit District Office. None