The U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Western District of North Carolina and the North Carolina Department of Justice filed a lawsuit today alleging that defendants Auto Fare Inc., Southeastern Auto Corp. and Zuhdi A. Saadehthe owners and operators of two buy here, pay here used-car dealerships in Charlotte, N.C. violated the federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act by intentionally targeting African-American customers for the extension and servicing of installment sale contracts on unfair and predatory terms. The State of North Carolina also alleges that the defendants actions violated the states Unfair and Deceptive Trade Practices Act. The complaint, which was filed today in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of North Carolina, alleges that the defendants engaged in a pattern or practice of reverse redlining by targeting African-American customers for installment sale contracts with inflated sales prices, down payments, and interest rates without meaningfully assessing the customers credit. The complaint states that Saadeh, who operates Auto Fare and United Car Sales, has used racial slurs to refer to African-Americans and made statements expressing his views that African-American customers have fewer credit options, making them more likely to accept the predatory terms of the contracts offered by the defendants. The defendants practices resulted in rates of default and repossession that are higher than other subprime used-car dealers. The complaint also alleges that the defendants failed to provide customers with a reasonable notice of repossession, repossessed vehicles of customers who were not in default on their contracts, failed to give customers refunds they were due, improperly seized customers personal property in repossessed vehicles and used global positioning system devices to locate and repossess vehicles without informing customers that the dealership had installed these devices. The U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Western District of North Carolina and the North Carolina Department of Justice investigated and filed the lawsuit jointly. Intentionally targetingAfrican-Americans for contracts with predatory terms because of their race violates fair lending laws, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Jocelyn Samuels for the Civil Rights Division. By filing this lawsuit, the Justice Department is acting to ensure that subprime dealers in the auto industry provide credit in accordance with the law. The Justice Department will continue to ensure that people have equal access to credit, regardless of race. The terms of a persons loan should not be determined by their race, said U.S. Attorney Anne M. Tompkins for the Western District of North Carolina. Predatory lending and illegal discrimination will simply not be tolerated. Charging people inflated prices based on their race isnt the way to do business in our state, said North Carolina Attorney General Roy Cooper. These allegations show outrageous behavior that should be stopped. None None None