  WASHINGTON  A former financial services executive was indicted yesterday for his participation in a far-reaching conspiracy and scheme to defraud related to bidding for contracts for the investment of municipal bond proceeds and other municipal finance contracts, the Department of Justice announced.None NoneNone   The indictment also alleges that Murphy and co-conspirators misrepresented to municipal issuers or bond counsel that the bidding process was in compliance with U.S. Treasury regulations.   This caused the municipal issuers to award investment agreements and other municipal finance contracts to providers that otherwise would not have been awarded the contracts if the issuers had true and accurate information regarding the bidding process.   Such conduct placed the tax-exempt status of the underlying bonds in jeopardy.NoneNone  Yesterdays charges outline a fraudulent scheme to subvert competition in the marketplace. Those who engage in this type of criminal activity not only stand to defraud public entities, but erode the publics trust in the competitive bidding process, said Janice K. Fedarcyk, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI in New York.   The FBI will continue to work with the Antitrust Division to ensure the integrity of competitive bidding in public finance.None   The charges announced today resulted from an ongoing investigation conducted by the Antitrust Divisions New York and Cleveland Field Offices, the FBI and IRS-CI.   The division is coordinating its investigation with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.      To date, a total of 13 individuals and one company have pleaded guilty to charges stemming from the ongoing investigation.   In May 2012, a federal jury in the Southern District of New York convicted Dominick Carollo, Steven Goldberg and Peter Grimm of multiple counts involving similar fraud conspiracies after a four-week trial.   Three other former executives of a financial institution were indicted on Dec. 9, 2010, for participating in fraud schemes and conspiracies related to the bidding for investment agreements, and are awaiting trial, which is scheduled to begin in Manhattan on July 30, 2012.None None