Attorney General Jeff Sessions today announced the appointment of nine new U.S. Attorneys to serve two-year terms on the Attorney Generals Advisory Committee of U.S. Attorneys (AGAC). AGAC was created in 1973 and reports to the Attorney General through the Deputy Attorney General. AGAC represents the U.S. Attorneys and provides advice and counsel to the Attorney General on matters of policy, procedure, and management impacting the Offices of the U.S. Attorneys. NoneThe new appointees include: U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Alabama Richard Moore; U.S. Attorney for the District of Utah John W. Huber; U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia Jessie K. Liu; U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Ohio Justin E. Herdman; U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of North Carolina Robert Higdon; U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Oklahoma Trent Shores; U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Indiana Joshua Minkler; U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Missouri Jeff Jensen; and Acting U.S. Attorney for the District of Alaska Bryan Schroder.NoneU.S. Attorney Richard Moore will serve as the Chair of AGAC, and U.S. Attorney John W. Huber will serve as the Vice Chair.NoneI am pleased to announce the first members of the Attorney Generals Advisory Committee under this administration. These U.S. Attorneys will play an important role in carrying out the Department of Justices mission to reduce violent crime, combat transnational criminal organizations, secure our southern border, end the devastating opioid crisis, and return to the rule of law, said Attorney General Sessions. NoneA brief bio on each nominee is below:NoneRichard Moore (Chair)The Senate confirmed Richard Moores appointment as United States Attorney for the Southern District of Alabama in September 2017. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Moore served as the Inspector General for the Tennessee Valley Authority. From May 2009 to March 2011, Mr. Moore was the Chairman of the Investigations Committee for the Council of Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency. Prior to this position, Mr. Moore served as an Assistant United States Attorney for the Southern District of Alabama from 1985 to 2003. From 1997 to 1998, Mr. Moore was an Atlantic Fellow in Public Policy at Oxford University in England. Mr. Moore received his B.S., summa cum laude, from Spring Hill College and his J.D. from the Samford University Cumberland School of Law.NoneJohn W. Huber (Vice Chair)Since June 2015, John Huber has served as the United States Attorney for the District of Utah, and in August 2017, the Senate again confirmed his appointment. Prior to being United States Attorney, Mr. Huber served as an Assistant United States Attorney for thirteen years. Mr. Huber began his prosecutorial career in the Weber County (Utah) Attorneys Office, and later served as the Chief Prosecutor for West Valley City, Utah, before joining the United States Attorneys Office in 2002. Mr. Huber received his B.A. from the University of Utah and his J.D. from the University of Utah College of Law.NoneJustin E. HerdmanThe Senate confirmed Justin Herdmans appointment as United States Attorney for the Northern District of Ohio in August 2017. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Herdman was a partner at Jones Day and an Assistant United States Attorney in Cleveland, Ohio. Mr. Herdman previously served as an Assistant District Attorney in New York City from 2001 to 2005 and as an associate at Vorys, Sater, Seymour and Pease, LLP. He is currently a Judge Advocate General in the United States Air Force Reserve. Mr. Herdman received his B.A. from Ohio University, his Master of Philosophy from the University of Glasgow and his J.D. from Harvard Law School.NoneRobert HigdonThe Senate confirmed Robert Higdon to be United States Attorney for the Eastern District of North Carolina in October 2017. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Higdon was a partner at the law firm of Williams Mullen. He previously served as an Assistant United States Attorney in both the Western and Eastern Districts of North Carolina. In the Eastern District U.S. Attorneys Office, Mr. Higdon served as Chief of the Criminal Division for more than 11 years. Mr. Higdon also served as senior trial counsel in the Public Integrity Section of the Department of Justice. He received his B.A., cum laude, from Wake Forest University and his J.D. from Wake Forest University School of Law.NoneJeff JensenThe Senate confirmed Jeff Jensen to be United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Missouri in October 2017. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Jensen was a partner at Husch Blackwell LLP. He served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Eastern District of Missouri starting in 1999, and was Executive United States Attorney from 2005 to 2009. Prior to joining the U.S. Attorneys Office, Mr. Jensen was an FBI Special Agent from 1989 to 1999. While working at the FBI, Mr. Jensen attended St. Louis University School of Law at night, graduating magna cum laude. He also received his B.A., cum laude, from Indiana University School of Business.NoneJessie K. LiuThe Senate confirmed Jessie Liu to be United States Attorney for the District of Columbia in September 2017. Ms. Liu was previously Deputy General Counsel for the United States Department of the Treasury and a partner at the law firms of Morrison & Foerster LLP and Jenner & Block LLP. In addition, she has served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the District of Columbia and in several senior positions in the United States Department of Justice, including as Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the Civil Rights Division, counsel to the Deputy Attorney General, and deputy chief of staff for the National Security Division. Ms. Liu clerked for then-Chief Judge Carolyn Dineen King of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. She received her A.B., summa cum laude, from Harvard University and her J.D. from Yale Law School.NoneJoshua MinklerThe Senate confirmed Joshua Minkler to be United States Attorney for the Southern District of Indiana in October 2017. Since June 2015, Mr. Minkler had served as the interim United States Attorney for the Southern District of Indiana. Prior to that position, he served for 21 years as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Southern District of Indiana. Before he joined the U.S. Attorneys Office, Mr. Minkler served for five years as an assistant prosecuting attorney in the Office of the Kent County Michigan Prosecuting Attorney. Mr. Minkler received his B.A. from Wabash College, and his J.D. from Indiana University Maurer School of Law. NoneBryan SchroderBryan Schroders nomination to be United States Attorney for the District of Alaska is pending in the Senate. Mr. Schroder is currently the Acting United States Attorney for the District of Alaska, and previously served as the First Assistant United States Attorney and Criminal Chief. Mr. Schroder has served in the U.S. Attorneys Office for more than 11 years. Mr. Schroder is a retired Captain in the U.S. Coast Guard, having served for 24 years. Mr. Schroder graduated from the U.S. Coast Guard Academy and the University of Washington School of Law.NoneR. Trent ShoresThe Senate confirmed Robert Trent Shores to be United States Attorney for the Northern District of Oklahoma in September 2017. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Shores was an Assistant United States Attorney in the Northern District of Oklahoma. Mr. Shores previously served as First Assistant Attorney General for the State of Oklahoma and deputy director for the Department of Justices Office of Tribal Justice, where he developed initiatives to promote public safety in Indian Country. Mr. Shores received his undergraduate degree from Vanderbilt University and his J.D. from the University of Oklahoma College of Law.