Settlement Requires Substantial Improvements to Dealerships Policies and Provides $225,000 in Relief to Affected CustomersThe U.S. Department of Justice Civil Rights Division, the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Western District of North Carolina and the North Carolina Department of Justice today announced a settlement of the federal governments first-ever discrimination lawsuit involving buy here, pay here auto lending. The settlement, which is subject to court approval, was filed today in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of North Carolina.The settlement resolves a lawsuit, filed in January 2014 by the Department of Justice and the State of North Carolina, alleging that Auto Fare Inc. and Southeastern Auto Corp., two buy here, pay here used-car dealerships in Charlotte, North Carolina, and their owner  violated the federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act by engaging in a pattern or practice of reverse redlining by intentionally targeting African-American customers for unfair and predatory credit practices in the financing of used car purchases. The state of North Carolina also alleged that the dealerships actions violated the states Unfair and Deceptive Trade Practices Act. The settlement came after the court denied the dealerships motion to dismiss the case and agreed that reverse redlining by an auto lender is illegal discrimination.It is not only illegal, but also fundamentally wrong, to target borrowers of color for predatory loans and exploit their need for a car to do essential tasks such as getting to work, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta of the Civil Rights Division. Combating discrimination in all segments of the auto lending market is, and will remain, a top priority for the Civil Rights Division. I am pleased that these dealerships have agreed to reform problematic lending and servicing practices and adopt policies that promote responsible lending. I hope that other buy here, pay here dealerships will evaluate their practices in light of this settlement.The settlement requires the dealerships to implement a number of specific practices to ensure that the terms of their loans and repossession practices are no longer unfair and predatory. The required changes include: limiting projected monthly payments to no more than 25% of a borrowers income; requiring interest rates to be at least five percentage points below the states rate cap; mandating a lower interest rate for borrowers who have specified evidence of lower credit risk; requiring competitive sales prices; prohibiting hidden fees on top of the required down payment; prohibiting repossessions until at least two consecutive missed payments; providing down payment refunds to borrowers who quickly go into default; requiring strict compliance with provisions of state repossession law enacted to protected consumers; providing borrowers improved disclosures at the time of sale (including disclosing the presence of any GPS, or automatic shut off, device); allowing borrowers to obtain an independent inspection of the car before completing the purchase; and providing borrowers improved notices before repossession.All consumers deserve to be treated fairly when they buy a car, said North Carolina Attorney General Roy Cooper. We hope this case sends a strong message that car dealers cannot use race when targeting buyers with overpriced cars and oppressive loans.The settlement also requires defendants to establish a $225,000 settlement fund to compensate victims of their past discriminatory and predatory lending.Predatory lending practices that lock consumers into contracts they cannot afford are illegal and can spell financial disaster for borrowers of lower income or challenged credit history, said U.S. Attorney Anne M. Tompkins of the Western District of North Carolina. Todays settlement ensures that all customers of Auto Fare Inc. and Southeastern Auto Corp. will have equal access to credit regardless of their race.The lawsuit alleged that the two dealerships sales prices, down payments, and interest rates were disproportionately high compared to other subprime used-car dealers. Because the dealerships did not meaningfully assess the customers creditworthiness or ability to repay, their rates of default and repossession were disproportionately high. Additionally, the dealerships engaged in repossessions when customers were not in default.NoneNoneNoneNone