The Justice Department announced today that it reached a settlement with McDonalds USA LLC and its corporate affiliates and subsidiaries (McDonalds) resolving allegations that McDonalds discriminated against immigrant employees of McDonalds-owned restaurants.The departments Office of Special Counsel for Immigration-Related Unfair Employment Practices (OSC) opened its investigation based on information received on its worker hotline. The investigation found that McDonalds had a longstanding practice of requiring lawful permanent residents to show a new permanent resident card when their original document expired, even though the law prohibits this practice. The investigation further found that the company did not make the equivalent request to its U.S. citizen employees who showed documents that later expired, and that those lawful permanent residents who were asked and could not provide a new card were not allowed to work, some even losing their jobs as a result. This investigation and todays settlement agreement only address actions by McDonalds, not its franchises.Employers cannot hold lawful permanent residents to a higher standard by placing additional documentary burdens upon them during the employment eligibility verification process, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta, head of the Civil Rights Division. Requiring unnecessary documentation of individuals based on their citizenship or immigration status is discriminatory, and the Department of Justice will not hesitate to enforce the law and protect the rights of work-authorized immigrants. We commend McDonalds for its cooperation throughout this investigation and for committing to compensate its current and former employees who lost wages due to these practices.Lawful permanent residents have authorization to live and work in the United States on a permanent basis. As proof of that status, a lawful permanent resident receives a permanent resident card, commonly called a Green Card, but lawful permanent residents are eligible for multiple documents that show their eligibility to work. Lawful permanent residents do not have to show their permanent resident cards when they start working. Like all workers, they can choose whatever valid documentation they want to establish their employment authorization. While most permanent resident cards contain an expiration date, as a general matter, card holders have permanent work authorization so the expiration of the card does not mean they lose their right to work or their status. Lawful permanent residents who decide to show an unexpired permanent resident card are not required to present any additional documentation when their card expires, and employers cannot request additional documents from them. Moreover, the anti-discrimination provision of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) prohibits employers from placing additional documentary burdens on work-authorized employees during the employment eligibility verification process because of their citizenship or immigration status.Under the settlement agreement, McDonalds will pay $355,000 in civil penalties to the United States, undergo monitoring for 20 months and train its employees on the INAs anti-discrimination provision.NoneNoneOSC is responsible for enforcing the anti-discrimination provision of the INA. Among other things, this law prohibits citizenship status and national origin discrimination in hiring, firing or recruitment or referral for a fee; discrimination in the employment eligibility verification process; retaliation; and intimidation. Trial Attorneys Jennifer Deines and Silvia Dominguez-Reese and Equal Opportunity Specialist Joann Sazama of the Civil Rights Division worked on this case.NoneNone