NoneMr. Diallo and his co-conspirators trafficked in counterfeit CDs and DVDs that would have been worth millions of dollars on the open market, to the detriment of artists, retailers, producers and others, said Assistant Attorney General Breuer. The Justice Department has never been more committed than it is today to investigating and prosecuting these crimes, and this case exemplifies our determination to make sure that counterfeiters and other intellectual property criminals are appropriately punished.NoneDiallo pleaded guilty on Sept. 1, 2009, to one count of conspiracy to commit criminal copyright infringement, to traffic in counterfeit goods and to traffic in counterfeit labels. At the plea hearing, Diallo admitted that he sold pirated CDs and DVDs along with counterfeit labels and packaging. Diallo admitted to selling, and conspiring to sell, thousands of pirated CDs and DVDs per week.  Diallo was one of 13 individuals charged in a May 19, 2009, indictment alleging various copyright, trademark and counterfeit goods offenses. In February 2011, four of Diallos co-conspirators were sentenced for their involvement in the piracy ring. Mamadou Sadio Barry, 40, was sentenced to 60 months in prison; Moussa Baradji, 29, was sentenced to 50 months in prison; Sedikey Sankano, 42, was sentenced to 24 months in prison; and Won Ahn, 69, was placed on probation for one year. Barry, Baradji and Sankano also were ordered to serve three years of supervised release following their prison terms. Barry and Baradji were ordered to pay $70,894 in restitution and Sankano was ordered to pay $3,867 in restitution. The court found that these defendants wereresponsible for distributing illegal copies of products that, if legitimate, would have been valued at more than $2 million.  The case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Brian Pearce in the Northern District of Georgia and Senior Counsel John H. Zacharia of the Criminal Divisions Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section. The case was investigated by special agents of the FBI and the Department of Homeland Security, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, together with officers of the Atlanta Police Department Organized Crime Unit; the College Park, Ga., Police Department; and the East Point, Ga ., Police Department. Assistance was provided by the Recording Industry Association of America and the Motion Picture Association of America.None