Thirty-five members and associates of the Nine Trey Gangsters set of the United Blood Nation (UBN) street gang, including a Godfather as well as other high-ranking leaders of the organization, have pleaded guilty to racketeering conspiracy and related charges in North Carolina, including drug trafficking, wire fraud, firearm possession, and the use of a firearm in furtherance of a crime of violence and drug trafficking.Acting Assistant Attorney General John P. Cronan of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney R. Andrew Murray for the Western District of North Carolina, and Special Agent in Charge John Strong of the FBI Charlotte, North Carolina Field Division, made the announcement.The pleas announced today are part of an extensive investigation by a broad array of federal, state, and local law enforcement agenciesincluding the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Sectionwhose goal has been to disrupt and dismantle the Nine Trey Gangsters, a dangerous set of the United Blood Nation street gang, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Cronan. By targeting the high-ranking individuals who were directing the gangs activitiesfrom locations up and down the eastern United States, both within prisons and in our communitiestodays pleas constitute a substantial step towards the gangs eradication.When my office indicted 83 Bloods gang members and senior leaders, the goal was to deliver a major blow to this organized criminal enterprise responsible for raging turf wars, rampant drug distribution and bloody gang violence, said U.S. Attorney Murray. Weve made significant progress toward that goal but the work is far from over. Communities across Western North Carolina know firsthand the trail of violence and devastation gangs leave behind. We have a duty to protect the public from gang violence and to bring relief to neighborhoods afflicted by gang activity. Working with our law enforcement partners we will continue to combine our efforts and resources to keep our communities safe and to protect our children from violent street gangs.The assaults, the robberies, the drug deals, each and every crime committed by these ruthless gang members was a blow to the safety of our communities, said Special Agent in Charge Strong. The guilty pleas by these suspects are the next step in securing justice for every innocent person who was impacted by the violent actions of these gangs members.Omari Rosero, aka Uno B, 41, of Elmira, New York, pleaded guilty to racketeering conspiracy. According to the factual basis of Roseros plea agreement, the Nine Trey Gangsters leadership proceeds in rank, from lowest to highest, from Scrap, 1-Star General through 5-Star General, Low, High, and, Godfather. During his plea, Omari Rosero admitted to holding the leadership rank of High, and to serving as an acting Godfather of the entire UBN gang. According to a recorded jail call, Omari Rosero admitted to being, together with Pedro Gutierrez, aka Magoo, and James Baxton, aka Frank White, the last ones that God put in power over the UBN. Rosero conducted gang business and participated in the distribution of gang dues while incarcerated in the New York State Department of Corrections.Porsha Talina Rosero, aka Lady Uno B, 35, of Syracuse, New York, pleaded guilty today to racketeering conspiracy. Rosero, who has a tattoo of Mrs. Uno B on her chest, referring to Omari Rosero, maintained a Facebook account through which private messages were sent from Omari Rosero to other Bloods leaders. According to the factual basis of her plea agreement, Porsha Rosero further admitted to participating in the distribution of gang dues, and to participating in a phone call during which Omari Rosero stated that a suspected cooperator would be faded straight up.In addition to Omari and Porsha Rosero, seven other defendants with high-ranking leadership positions have previously pleaded guilty in this investigation:Furthermore, the following defendants have also pleaded guilty in this case:According to admissions made in connection with the plea agreements, the UBN is a violent criminal street gang operating throughout the east coast of the United States since its inception as a prison gang in 1993. UBN members are often identified by their use of the color red, and can also often be identified by common tattoos or burn marks. Examples include: a three-circle pattern, usually burned onto the upper arm, known as a dog paw; the acronym M.O.B., which stands for Member of Bloods; the words damu, or eastside; the number five; the five-pointed star; and the five-pointed crown. UBN members have distinct hand signs and written codes, which are used to identify other members and rival gang members. The Nine Trey Gangster set of the UBN refer to themselves as Billies.Furthermore, the plea agreements note that the UBN is governed by a common set of 31 rules, known as The 31, which were originally written by the founders of the UBN. Members of the UBN are expected to conduct themselves and their illegal activity according to rules and regulations set by their leaders. Prominent among these is a requirement to pay monthly dues to the organization, often in the amounts of $31 or $93. A percentage of these funds are transferred to incarcerated UBN leadership in New York; these funds also are used locally to conduct gang business. UBN gang dues are derived from illegal activity performed by subordinate UBN members including narcotics trafficking, robberies, wire fraud, and bank fraud, among other forms of illegal racketeering activities.The convictions are the result of a joint effort by the FBI; the Charlotte Mecklenburg Police Department; the Shelby Police Department; the Cleveland County Sheriffs Office; the Gastonia Police Department; the North Carolina State Highway Patrol; the Mecklenburg County Sheriffs Office; the North Carolina Division of Adult Correction and Juvenile Justice; the North Carolina Department of Motor Vehicles; the U.S. Federal Probation; the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives; the Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation; the U.S. Postal Inspection Service; the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command; and the New York Department of Corrections and Community Supervision, Office of Special Investigations. The case is being prosecuted by the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Western District of North Carolina.This prosecution is part of an extensive investigation by the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force (OCDETF). OCDETF is a joint federal, state, and local cooperative approach to combat drug trafficking and is the nations primary tool for disrupting and dismantling major drug trafficking organizations, targeting national and regional level drug trafficking organizations, and coordinating the necessary law enforcement entities and resources to disrupt or dismantle the targeted criminal organization and seize their assets.