  Today, a federal grand jury returned a superseding criminal indictment in the Daniel Patrick Boyd matter.  While the superseding indictment returned today includes all of the charges alleged in the original indictment of July 22, 2009, it also includes new charges against three defendants, Daniel Patrick Boyd, aka "Saifullah," Hysen Sherifi, and Zakariya Boyd, aka "Zak."  First, the superseding indictment charges Daniel Patrick Boyd, aka "Saifullah," and Hysen Sherifi with conspiring to murder U.S. military personnel, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1117. The superseding indictment alleges, among other things, that in furtherance of this agreement, Boyd undertook reconnaissance of the Marine Corps Base located in Quantico, Va., and obtained maps of the base in order to plan an attack on Quantico. According to the superseding indictment, Boyd possessed armor piercing ammunition, stating it was "to attack the Americans." A conviction for conspiring to violate Title 18, United States Code, Section 1117 has a maximum penalty of imprisonment for any term of years or life, and/or a $250,000 fine, followed by five years of supervised release.  Second, Boyd, Sherifi, and Zakariya Boyd, aka "Zak," are also charged with possession of weapons in furtherance of a crime of violence, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 924(c). These section 924(c) charges are separate from, and in addition to, the section 924(c) charges alleged in the original indictment. A violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 924(c), carries a maximum penalty of no less than five years in prison nor more than life, a $250,000 fine or both fine and imprisonment, and up to five years of supervised release following imprisonment. If any of the defendants are convicted for more than one of the section 924(c) charges alleged by the grand jury, the minimum term of imprisonment rises to 25 years, to run consecutively to any other sentence.  Third, Daniel Boyd is also charged with the providing a Ruger mini 14 rifle and, on a separate date, .223 ammunition, to a convicted felon, each in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 922(d). If convicted, Boyd faces up to ten years in prison and a $250,000 fine, and three years supervised release on each of these charges.  U.S. Attorney George E.B. Holding commented: "These additional charges hammer home the grim reality that todays homegrown terrorists are not limiting their violent plans to locations overseas, but instead are willing to set their sights on American citizens and American targets, right here at home."  "The events over the course of the week should serve as a reminder that there are those at home and abroad who continue to plot to cause harm to U.S. citizens. The FBI, U.S. Attorney's Office and our law enforcement and intelligence community partners will continue working tirelessly to prevent that from happening," said Owen D. Harris, Special Agent in Charge of the Charlotte Division of the FBI.  "NCIS investigative efforts in support of the FBIs investigation centered on protecting Marine Corps personnel assigned to MCB Quantico during Mr. Boyd's alleged activities. These efforts were closely coordinated and supported by MCB Quantico Command to insure the safety of military and civilian personnel aboard the base. This case represents the close coordination between NCIS and FBI in addressing terrorism issues that may impact the operational readiness of the U.S. military."  An indictment contains allegations that a defendant has committed a crime. Every defendant is presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty in court.