The U.S. and the States of Minnesota and Wisconsin today announced an $8.2 million settlement with XIK, LLC, Honeywell International, Inc., and Domtar, Inc. to resolve a claim for natural resource damages at the St. Louis River / Interlake / Duluth Tar (SLRIDT) Superfund Site brought under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), also known as the Superfund Law. The SLRIDT Site consists of 255 acres of land and river embayments located primarily in Duluth, Minnesota, and extends into the St. Louis River, including Stryker Bay. None The restoration work enabled by this settlement will make significant contributions to the environment in the area of the St. Louis River and nearby Lake Superior, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Jeffrey H. Wood of the Department of Justices Environment and Natural Resources Division. We are particularly pleased to have been able to work alongside the State of Wisconsin, the State of Minnesota, affected Tribes, the U.S. Department of Interior, and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration on achieving this positive outcome. Under CERCLA, federal, state, and tribal natural resource trustees have authority to seek compensation for natural resources harmed by hazardous industrial waste and by-products discharged into the St. Louis River. The natural resource trustees include the U.S. Department of the Interior, acting through the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the Bureau of Indian Affairs; the U.S. Department of Commerce, acting through the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; the Fond du Lac Band of Lake Superior Chippewa; the 1854 Treaty Authority, representing the Grand Portage Band of Lake Superior Chippewa and the Bois Forte Band of Chippewa; the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency; the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources; and the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources. The proposed settlement includes $6.5 million to be used on restoration activities consistent with a proposed Restoration Plan/Environmental Assessment that is also being made available for public review and comment today. Of the possible restoration alternatives, the draft Restoration Plan recommends:  The three Defendants previously paid approximately $80 million to clean up the SLRIDT Superfund site under prior agreements with the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency. None None