      WASHINGTON  ATexas man was sentenced today in federal court in Wichita on felony charges of conspiracy, wildlife trafficking and obstruction of justice related to the illegal sale of guided deer hunts in southern Kansas, announced Ignacia S. Moreno, Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division and Barry Grissom, U.S. Attorney for the District of Kansas.   None None    Illegal wildlife trafficking is a threat to the natural resources of Kansas, Grissom said. Our goal is to preserve and protect wildlife for everyone to enjoy  including hunters who abide by the law.     The Lacey Act is a federal law that makes it illegal to knowingly transport or sell in interstate commerce any wildlife taken or possessed in violation of state law or regulation.    According to court documents filed in the case, James and Marlin Butler conspired together to knowingly transport and sell in interstate commerce deer that had been hunted in violation of Kansas state law.  In particular, the brothers operated a guiding service and hunting camp near Coldwater, Kan., at which they sold guiding services to out-of-state hunters for the purpose of illegally hunting and killing white-tailed deer and mule deer.  Hunters guided by the Butler brothers killed deer in excess of annual bag limits, hunted deer without permits or with permits for the wrong deer management unit, killed deer using illegal equipment, and hunted using prohibited methods such as spotlighting. The guided hunts were sold for between $2,500 and $5,500, and in several instances resulted in the killing of trophy-sized buck deer.  In addition to selling guiding services, the brothers also arranged for transport of the deer, in particular the antlers and capes, from Kansas to Texas and Louisiana.     James Butler also pleaded guilty to instructing another person to conceal or destroy evidence during the investigation.      This is the largest case in the history of wildlife law enforcement in Kansas, said Steve Oberholtzer, Special Agent in Charge of the Mountain-Prairie Region, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Trophy deer are an important resource for the state of Kansas from both wildlife and economic standpoints.  Joint investigations such as this one demonstrate that the combined efforts of state and federal agencies and our federal prosecutors result in prosecutions that hold those who violate the law accountable.  We are grateful to the Kansas Department of Wildlife and Parks and the U.S. Attorney's Office for their assistance in this case and hope that it will serve as a deterrent to others who might consider exploiting our nation's wildlife for personal gain.      The case was investigated by the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service, the Kansas Department of Wildlife and Parks and the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department, and jointly prosecuted by District of Kansas U.S. Attorney Barry Grissoms office and the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division, Environmental Crimes Section.