Five individuals have been arrested in connection with their suspected involvement in a series of violent robberies against traveling jewelry salesmen, one of which resulted in the death of the victim, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Kenneth A. Blanco of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney John Parker of the Northern District of Texas and Special Agent in Charge Eric K. Jackson of the FBIs Dallas Division. Thanks to the efforts of our prosecutors, the FBI and our local and international partners, all five members of this alleged armed robbery organization have been apprehended, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Blanco. We thank our Colombian law enforcement partners for their outstanding work. The U.S. Department of Justice is committed to working vigorously with our partners at home and abroad to apprehend and bring this and other armed robbery groups to justice.I commend the extraordinary efforts of the FBI and our local and international law enforcement partners in apprehending these brazenly violent fugitives, said U.S. Attorney Parker. This extremely dangerous group of robbers is part of a larger organized South American theft group that has targeted members of the jewelry industry across this nation for a number of years. Our community is safer as a result of getting these people off our streets.This case is a testament to the exemplary work of the FBIs Violent Crime Task Force, said Special Agent in Charge Jackson. The agents on our task force worked hand in hand with state, local and international partners to relentlessly investigate these crimes and, ultimately, identify, locate and apprehend these violent fugitives.Pedro Louis Alvarez, 32, of Honduras; and four Colombian nationals, Johnnattan Ramirez, 35; Robert Riveros, 25; Eslevy Vargas-Avila, 27; and Catherine Contreras-Beltran, 28, were charged in a federal superseding indictment in October 2016 with one count of conspiracy to interfere with commerce by robbery, two counts of interference with commerce by robbery and related firearms charges. Ramirez, Alvarez and Riveros are also charged with one additional count of interference with commerce by robbery and related firearms charges. Alvarez was arrested in New York City by the FBI and the Dallas Fort Worth International Airport Department of Public Safety on June 27, 2016. Contreras-Beltran, Vargas-Avila, Ramirez and Riveros were all arrested in Colombia by the Colombian National Police, between December 2016, and July 19.  None None The FBI Dallas Violent Crimes Task Force, the Dallas Fort Worth International Airport Department of Public Safety, Arlington Texas Police Department and the Garland Texas Police Department investigated the case, with assistance from the Colombian National Police. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Keith Robinson and Trial Attorney Joseph Wheatley of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section.