A 70-year-old Kansas native who was residing in Panama was indicted today and charged with multiple crimes involving sexual conduct with minors in a foreign country, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Kenneth A. Blanco of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney Kenneth Magidson of the Southern District of Texas.Jebediah Dishman, 70, of Fredonia, Kansas, was arrested in Houston on Nov. 8, 2016, and originally charged by criminal complaint. He later appeared before U.S. Magistrate Judge Mary Milloy who found him to be a flight risk and ordered him into custody. Today, a grand jury in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas indicted him on one count each of engaging in illicit sexual conduct with a minor in a foreign country, production of child pornography, sex trafficking of children, and obtaining custody and control of a minor for the purpose of producing sexually explicit visual depictions of the minor.According to the indictment, from September 2014 through March 2015, Dishman traveled from the United States to the Republic of Indonesia and engaged in illicit sexual conduct with minors.While in Indonesia in February 2015, Dishman allegedly used a minor to produce visual depictions of the minor engaging in sexually explicit conduct.In addition, the indictment alleges that between September 2014 and March 2015, Dishman attempted to recruit and entice minors in the Republic of Indonesia and other countries outside of the territorial jurisdiction of the United States to engage in commercial sex acts.The charges contained in the indictment are only allegations.The defendant is presumed innocent unless and until he is proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.The FBI is investigating this case with the cooperation of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations.Trial Attorney Elly M. Peirson of the Criminal Divisions Child Exploitation and Obscenity Section (CEOS) and Assistant U.S. Attorney Sherri Zack of the Southern District of Texas are prosecuting the case.None