A California man pleaded guilty today to two counts of conspiracy to commit wire fraud and one count of conspiracy to commit international money laundering in connection with an international pump and dump scheme involving stocks traded on the over-the-counter (OTC) market.Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Dana J. Boente of the Eastern District of Virginia and Assistant Director in Charge Paul M. Abbate of the FBIs Washington Field Office made the announcement.Harold Bailey Gallison II, 58, of Valley Center, California, was charged in an indictment unsealed on July 14, 2015, along with eight other individuals for their roles in complex, international stock manipulation and money laundering schemes.In entering his guilty plea, Gallison admitted that he conspired to artificially pump or inflate the trading volume and price of the shares of Warrior Girl Corp., quoted on the OTC market under the ticker symbol WRGL, and Everock Inc., quoted on the OTC market under the ticker symbol EVRN, by touting business activities and deceptive revenue forecasts and by engaging in coordinated trading activity to create the appearance of increasing market demand. Gallison admitted that he and others then dumped or sold the shares at the inflated prices and laundered proceeds through bank accounts in the United States and overseas. Gallison further admitted that he facilitated the schemes through an offshore brokerage and money laundering platform that went by various names, including Sandias Azucaradas, Moneyline Brokers and Trinity Asset Services (collectively Moneyline). Through Moneyline, Gallison created nominee accounts in the names of shell companies to conceal both the true source and ownership of the securities and the flow of funds. In addition, Gallison pleaded guilty to one count of conspiring to launder the proceeds of a number of securities fraud schemes, including Warrior Girl and Everock, totaling more than $25 million.Several of Gallisons co-defendants are scheduled to proceed to trial on Jan. 25, 2016, and are presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty. Gallison is scheduled to be sentenced on March 18, 2016.The FBIs Washington Field Office is investigating the case. Senior Trial Attorney N. Nathan Dimock and Trial Attorney Michael ONeill of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Kosta Stojilkovic of the Eastern District of Virginia are prosecuting the case. Assistant U.S. Attorneys James P. Gillis and G. Zachary Terwilliger of the Eastern District of Virginia assisted in the prosecution. The Securities and Exchange Commission, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and the Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs also provided significant assistance. 