The Justice Department announced today a $5.28 billion settlement with Credit Suisse related to Credit Suisses conduct in the packaging, securitization, issuance, marketing and sale of residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) between 2005 and 2007. The resolution announced today requires Credit Suisse to pay $2.48 billion as a civil penalty under the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act (FIRREA). It also requires the bank to provide $2.8 billion in other relief, including relief to underwater homeowners, distressed borrowers and affected communities, in the form of loan forgiveness and financing for affordable housing. Investors, including federally-insured financial institutions, suffered billions of dollars in losses from investing in RMBS issued and underwritten by Credit Suisse between 2005 and 2007.Todays settlement underscores that the Department of Justice will hold accountable the institutions responsible for the financial crisis of 2008, said Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch. Credit Suisse made false and irresponsible representations about residential mortgage-backed securities, which resulted in the loss of billions of dollars of wealth and took a painful toll on the lives of ordinary Americans. Under the terms of this settlement, Credit Suisse will pay $2.48 billion as a fine for its conduct. And Credit Suisse has pledged $2.8 billion in relief to struggling homeowners, borrowers, and communities affected by the banks lending practices. These sums reflect the huge breach of public trust committed by financial institutions like Credit Suisse.Credit Suisse claimed its mortgage backed securities were sound, but in the settlement announced today the bank concedes that it knew it was peddling investments containing loans that were likely to fail, said Principal Deputy Associate Attorney General Bill Baer. That behavior is unacceptable. Today's $5.3 billion resolution is another step towards holding financial institutions accountable for misleading investors and the American public.Resolutions like the one announced today confirm that the financial institutions that engaged in conduct that jeopardized the nations fiscal security will be held accountable, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer, head of the Justice Departments Civil Division. This is another step in the Departments continuing effort to redress behavior that contributed to the Great Recession.Credit Suisses mortgage misconduct hurt people, including in Colorado, said Acting United States Attorney for the District of Colorado Bob Troyer. Unscrupulous lenders knew they could get away with shoddy underwriting when making mortgage loans, because they knew Credit Suisse would buy those defective mortgage loans and put them into securities. When those mortgages went into foreclosure, many people got hurt: families lost their homes, communities were blighted by empty houses, and investors who had put their trust in Credit Suisses supposedly safe securities suffered huge losses. Our office led this investigation into Credit Suisse to protect homeowners, communities, and investors across the country, including here in Colorado. Credit Suisse is paying a hefty penalty and acknowledging its misconduct, but that is not all. Years after the Great Recession, many families still struggle to afford a home, so we also crafted an agreement to bring needed housing relief to such families, including specifically in Colorado.This settlement includes a statement of facts to which Credit Suisse has agreed. That statement of facts describes how Credit Suisse made false and misleading representations to prospective investors about the characteristics of the mortgage loans it securitized. (The quotes in the following paragraphs are from that agreed-upon statement of facts, unless otherwise noted.):Assistant U.S. Attorneys Kevin Traskos, Hetal J. Doshi, Shiwon Choe, Ian J. Kellogg, Lila M. Bateman, and J. Chris Larson of the District of Colorado investigated Credit Suisses conduct in connection with RMBS, with the support of the Federal Housing Finance Agencys Office of the Inspector General (FHFA-OIG).Credit Suisse knowingly put investors at risk, and the losses caused by its irresponsible behavior deeply affected not only financial institutions such as the Federal Home Loan Banks, but also taxpayers, and contributed significantly to the financial crisis, said Special Agent in Charge Catherine Huber of the Federal Housing Finance Agency-Office of Inspector Generals (FHFA-OIG) Midwest Region. This settlement illustrates the tireless efforts put forth toward bringing a resolution to this chapter of the financial crisis. FHFA-OIG will continue to work with our law enforcement partners to hold those who have engaged in misconduct accountable for their actions.The $2.48 billion civil monetary penalty resolves claims under FIRREA, which authorizes the federal government to impose civil penalties against financial institutions that violate various predicate offenses, including wire and mail fraud. The settlement expressly preserves the governments ability to bring criminal charges against Credit Suisse or any of its employees. The settlement does not release any individuals from potential criminal or civil liability. As part of the settlement, Credit Suisse has agreed to fully cooperate with any ongoing investigations related to the conduct covered by the agreement.Credit Suisse will pay out the remaining $2.8 billion in the form of relief to aid consumers harmed by its unlawful conduct. Specifically, Credit Suisse agrees to provide loan modifications, including loan forgiveness and forbearance, to distressed and underwater homeowners throughout the country. It also agrees to provide financing for affordable rental and for-sale housing throughout the country. This agreement represents the most substantial commitment in any RMBS agreement to date to provide financing for affordable housinga crucial need following the turmoil of the financial crisis.The settlement is part of the ongoing efforts of President Obamas Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Forces RMBS Working Group, which has recovered tens of billions of dollars on behalf of American consumers and investors for claims against large financial institutions arising from misconduct related to the financial crisis. The RMBS Working Group brings together attorneys, investigators, analysts and staff from multiple state and federal agencies, including the Department of Justice, U.S. Attorneys Offices, the FBI, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), HUDs Office of Inspector General, the FHFA-OIG, SIGTARP, the Federal Reserve Boards OIG, the Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network and multiple state Attorneys General offices around the country. The RMBS Working Group is led by Director Joshua Wilkenfeld and four co-chairs: Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Mizer, Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, Director Andrew Ceresney of the SECs Division of Enforcement, and New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman. This settlement is the latest in a series of major RMBS settlements announced by the Working Group.None