The U.S. Department of Justice today filed a lawsuit in U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington, alleging that Northwest Trustee Services, Inc. (Northwest) violated the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (SCRA). The complaint alleges that since 2010, Northwest completed foreclosures on at least 28 homes owned by servicemembers without obtaining the required court orders.  The SCRA protects the rights of servicemembers on active duty by suspending or modifying certain civil obligations. The law prohibits foreclosing on the home of a servicemember during active military service and one year thereafter without a court order if the mortgage originated prior to the servicemembers period of military service. None As we reflect this Veterans Day on the great debt we owe to those who have fought so hard for our freedom, we also reaffirm our commitment to protecting the rights of those who serve, said Acting Assistant Attorney General John M. Gore of the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division. Our men and women in uniform make immense personal sacrifices to keep our country safe. Losing their home to an unlawful foreclosure should not be one of them.  The loss of a home is a devastating blow for anyone  but far worse for active duty service members often called to war zones far from Western Washington, said U.S. Attorney Annette L. Hayes.Our investigation revealed that Northwest Trustee Services repeatedly failed to comply with laws that are meant to ensure our service members do not have to fight a two front war  one on behalf of all of us, and the other against illegal foreclosures. My office will continue to work closely with our colleagues in the Civil Rights Division in Washington, D.C. to protect Western Washington service members from this kind of misconduct.  In addition to monetary damages for affected servicemembers, the SCRA provides for civil monetary penalties of up to $60,788 for the first offense and $121,577 for each subsequent offense. The department will also seek injunctive relief to prevent future foreclosures that violate the SCRA. Northwest Trustee Services is based in Bellevue, Washington, and describes itself as a full-service trustee company providing foreclosure services to mortgage lenders in the Western United States. The complaint is an allegation of unlawful conduct. The allegations must still be proven in federal court. This case is being jointly handled by the departments Civil Rights Division and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Western District of Washington. None None