  Mobile, Alabama-based Infirmary  Health System Inc. (IHS), two IHS-affiliated clinics and Diagnostic Physicians  Group P.C. (DPG) have agreed to pay the United States $24.5 million to resolve a  lawsuit alleging that they violated the False Claims Act by paying or receiving  financial inducements in connection with claims to the Medicare program, the  Justice Department announced today.   Financial arrangements that  compensate physicians for referrals encourage physicians to make decisions based  on financial gain rather than patients needs, said Assistant Attorney General  for the Civil Division Stuart F. Delery.  The Department of Justice is  committed to preventing illegal financial relationships that undermine the  integrity of our public health programs.   The governments suit alleged  that two IHS affiliated clinics -- IMC-Diagnostic and Medical Clinic, in Mobile,  and IMC-Northside Clinic, in Saraland, Alabama -- had agreements with DPG to pay  the group a percentage of Medicare payments for tests and procedures referred by  DPG physicians, in violation of the Physician Self-Referral Law (commonly known  as the Stark Law) and the Anti-Kickback Statute.  Also named in the lawsuit was  Infirmary Medical Clinics P.C. (IMC), an affiliate of IHS that directly owns and  operates approximately 30 clinics in the Mobile area, including the two clinics  involved in this lawsuit.   The Anti-Kickback Statute and the  Stark Law are intended to ensure that a physicians medical judgment is not  compromised by improper financial incentives.  The Anti-Kickback Statute  prohibits offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce  referrals of items or services covered by federal health care programs,  including Medicare.  The Stark Law forbids a hospital or clinic from billing  Medicare for certain services referred by physicians who have a financial  relationship with the entity.   According to the governments  complaint, in 1988, IMC purchased IMC-Diagnostic and Medical Clinic from DPG and  agreed to pay DPG a share of the revenues the clinics collected, including  Medicare revenues from diagnostic imaging and laboratory tests.  After IMC  acquired the IMC-Northside Clinic in 2008, the physicians practicing there  joined DPG and entered into an agreement with the same key terms as the earlier  agreement with IMC-Diagnostic and Medical Clinic.  The government contended that  these payments were illegal kickbacks and constituted a prohibited financial  relationship under the Stark Law, and that in June 2010, an attorney for DPG  warned employees of both IMC and DPG that the compensation being paid to the  physicians likely violated the law.  Nevertheless, the agreements allegedly were  neither modified nor terminated for another 18 months.   The lawsuit was originally filed  by Dr. Christian Heesch, a physician formerly employed by DPG, under the  whistleblower provisions of the False Claims Act.  Those provisions authorize  private parties to sue on behalf of the United States and to receive a portion  of any recovery.  The act permits the United States to intervene and take over  the lawsuit, as it did in this case with respect to some of Dr. Heeschs  allegations.  Dr. Heesch will receive $4.41 million as his share of the  settlement.   Todays settlement represents a  single but significant step towards achieving integrity in the administration of  public health programs in this region, said U.S. Attorney Kenyen Brown for the  Southern District of Alabama.  Physicians, physician groups and other medical  entities operating illegally within public health programs will be held  accountable.  I also commend whistle blowers like Dr. Christian Heesch, who  helped bring this particular case to light.   As part of the settlement  announced today, the settling defendants have also agreed to enter into a  Corporate Integrity Agreement with the U.S. Department of Health and Human  Services Office of Inspector General (HHS-OIG), which obligates the defendants  to undertake substantial internal compliance reforms and to submit its federal  health care program claims to independent review for the next five years.   Patients must know that medical  advice is based on best practices, not on their providers bottom line, said  HHS-OIG Special Agent in Charge Derrick L. Jackson.  We are pleased these  allegations are resolved and will continue to work with the U.S. Department of  Justice to investigate and pursue illegal, wasteful business arrangements.   This settlement illustrates the  governments emphasis on combating health care fraud and marks another  achievement for the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team  (HEAT) initiative, which was announced in May 2009 by the Attorney General and  the Secretary of Health and Human Services.  The partnership between the two  departments has focused efforts to reduce and prevent Medicare and Medicaid  financial fraud through enhanced cooperation.  One of the most powerful tools in  this effort is the False Claims Act.  Since January 2009, the Justice Department  has recovered a total of more than $20.2 billion through False Claims Act cases,  with more than $14 billion of that amount recovered in cases involving fraud  against federal health care programs.   The investigation and litigation  were conducted by the Justice Departments Civil Division, the U.S. Attorneys  Office for the Southern District of Alabama, HHS-OIG and the FBI.  The claims  settled by this agreement are allegations only, and there has been no  determination of liability. None