None Contractors who misrepresent their eligibility for government contracts undermine the government procurement process, said Deputy Assistant Attorney General Joyce R. Branda of the Civil Division. The Justice Department will take action to protect that process and to ensure that taxpayer funds are not misused. USAID Office of Inspector General extensively investigated this matter and thanks the Department of Justice for its tenacity and dedication, said Special Agent in Charge Jonathan Schofield of USAID Office of Inspector General. Total settlements on this matter exceed $10 million and demonstrate once again that the United States expects its contractors to execute their awards in accordance with all requisite terms and conditions, whether operating domestically or overseas. The settlement concerns USAID-funded contracts for the construction of water and wastewater infrastructure projects in the Arab Republic of Egypt in the 1990s. The contracts were awarded to a joint venture partnership that included Washington Group International Inc. (WGI), Contrack International Inc. (Contrack) and HAS. The United States filed suit under the False Claims Act and the Foreign Assistance Act, alleging that HAS was ineligible to participate in the joint venture but that its participation was concealed from USAID. As a result, HAS and its partners allegedly received USAID-funded contracts to which they were not entitled. The settlement resolves only HAS liability. The United States previously settled with Contrack and WGI. This settlement was the result of a coordinated effort by the Civil Divisions Commercial Litigation Branch, the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Idaho and the USAID Office of Inspector General. The case is captioned United States v. Washington Group International Inc. f/k/a/ Morrison Knudsen, Corporation, Contrack International, Inc.; and Misr Sons Development S.A.E. a/k/a Hassan Allam Sons, No. 04-555 (D. Idaho). The claims resolved by this settlement are allegations only and there has been no determination of liability.