Earlier today, Eliu Elixander Lorenzana-Cordon, 46, previously residing in La Reforma, Guatemala, was sentenced to life in prison following a trial in March 2016, where he was found guilty of conspiring to illegally import into the United States and distribute multi-ton quantities of cocaine.Acting Assistant Attorney General John P. Cronan of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and Special Agent in Charge Raymond P. Donovan of the Drug Enforcement Administrations (DEA) Special Operations Division made the announcement.The sentence was issued by U.S. District Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly of the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia.Lorenzana-Cordon was a leader of a major international drug trafficking organization with close ties to the Sinaloa Cartel, one of the most violent and sophisticated transnational criminal organizations operating in the world today, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Cronan. In that capacity, Lorenzana-Cordon was responsible for receiving and distributing tons of cocaine destined for the United States, where it would be sold on our streets, causing untold harm to our communities and the lives of our citizens. This sentence sends an unmistakable message that the Department will continue to relentlessly pursue and prosecute international drug traffickers who endeavor to send drugs to the United States, wherever they may be.Global criminal networks operate every day through drug trafficking and violence to assault the rule of law in the United States and around the world, said Special Agent in Charge Donovan. DEA and our foreign counterparts have worked tirelessly to ensure that Lorenzana-Cordon would spend a significant portion of his life in a U.S. prison cell for his crimes against our great country.NoneNoneThe DEAs 959/Bilateral Investigations Unit and Guatemala City Country Office led the investigation, which was supported by the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force program, the Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs, the Chicago Police Department and the governments of El Salvador and Panama provided support and assistance. Finally, and in particular, the Justice Department wishes to convey its gratitude to the government of Guatemala for its steadfast commitment, collaboration and assistance in the investigation, extradition and prosecution of this case.Trial Attorneys Michael Lang, Stephen Sola and Emily Cohen of the Criminal Divisions Narcotic and Dangerous Drug Section are prosecuting the case.