A former senior derivatives trader at the London desk for Coperatieve Centrale Raiffeisen-Boerenleenbank B.A. (Rabobank) pleaded guilty today in U.S. federal court for his role in a scheme to manipulate the U.S. Dollar (USD) and Yen London InterBank Offered Rate (LIBOR), a benchmark interest rate. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, Assistant Attorney General Bill Baer of the Justice Departments Antitrust Division and Assistant Director in Charge Andrew G. McCabe of the FBIs Washington Field Office made the announcement.Lee Stewart, 51, of London appeared in the Southern District of New York before United States District Judge Jed S. Rakoff and pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit wire and bank fraud. A sentencing hearing is scheduled for June 9, 2017.At the time relevant to the charges, LIBOR was an average interest rate, calculated based on submissions from leading banks around the world, reflecting the rates those banks believed they would be charged if borrowing from other banks. It served as the primary benchmark for short-term interest rates globally and was used as a reference rate for many interest rate contracts, mortgages, credit cards, student loans and other consumer lending products. LIBOR was published by the British Bankers Association, a trade association based in London, and was calculated for 10 currencies at 15 borrowing periods, known as maturities, ranging from overnight to one year. The published LIBOR fix for U.S. Dollar and Yen currency for a specific maturity was the result of a calculation based upon submissions from a panel of 16 banks, including Rabobank. NoneThe investigation is being conducted by special agents, forensic accountants and intelligence analysts in the FBIs Washington Field Office. The prosecution is being handled by Senior Litigation Counsel Carol L. Sipperly and Trial Attorney Brian R. Young of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and Trial Attorney Michael T. Koenig of the Antitrust Division. The Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs has provided assistance in this matter.None