NoneMD2U Holding Company, including its related companies and individually named owners, have agreed to pay millions to resolve a government lawsuit alleging that they violated the federal False Claims Act by knowingly submitting false medical claims to Medicare and other government health care programs, altering records to support false claims and providing services that were medically unnecessary, announced U.S. Attorney John E. Kuhn Jr. for the Western District of KentuckyUnfortunately, our healthcare system is under assault from a small minority of providers who engage in fraudulent billing, overbilling and providing unnecessary services, said U.S. Attorney Kuhn. In an effort to control these losses and force accountability, my office and the Department of Justice pursues and recovers false and fraudulent billings as one of its highest priorities. This significant case against MD2U is but one example of the vigorous work against healthcare fraud taking place in the Western District and across the nation.This provider billed for medically unnecessary home visits and often grossly exaggerated the level of service provided, said Special Agent in Charge Derrick L. Jackson for the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General (HHS-OIG) in Atlanta. The OIG is committed to protecting the integrity of federal health care programs by aggressively pursuing entities that increase their revenue through deceitful schemes and trickery.The governments complaint alleged that between July 1, 2007, and Nov. 30, 2014, MD2U submitted false billings for patients who were neither homebound nor home-limited; improperly billed the government for medically unnecessary visits; billed government health care programs at the highest payment codes (upcoding) when a lower code would have been more appropriate; and cloned medical records (a cut, copy, paste electronic program) in order to justify patient visits. Specifically, the governments complaint alleged that MD2Us schemes included the following:Through a stipulation and order to be entered by the court, the defendants have admitted that they violated the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C.  3729-3733, by (a) making or causing others to make false statements and (b) submitting or causing others to submit false claims to the United States. The defendants admit that these actions caused damages and that they are liable to the United States in the amount of $21,511,756 under the False Claims Act (which allows for damages in the amount of three times the governments loss, plus penalties).Further, in the consent judgment to be entered by the court, defendants J. Michael Benfield, Chief Executive Officer and President of MD2U; Greg Latta, Chief Information Officer; and Karen Latta, Chief Operations Officer, all owners, residing in Louisville, Kentucky, admit that, due in part to the actions of a former employee, they caused the submission of false claims to the United States in violation of the False Claims Act. They further admit that the submission of the claims for payment caused these damages as a result of misrepresentations, false representations and/or deceptive conduct; that it was done with reckless disregard of the falsity of the claims; and in doing so, caused the United States to be deceived.Through the terms of the stipulation and order, the defendants can fulfill their obligations to pay the consent judgment by paying $3.3 million and a percentage of MD2Us net income over the next five years. The defendants have also agreed to enter into a five year corporate integrity agreement with HHS-OIG.The settlement announced today illustrates the governments emphasis on combating health care fraud and marks another achievement for the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT) initiative, which was announced in May 2009 by the Attorney General and the Secretary of Health and Human Services. The partnership between the two departments has focused efforts to reduce and prevent Medicare and Medicaid financial fraud through enhanced cooperation. One of the most powerful tools in this effort is the False Claims Act. Since January 2009, the Justice Department has recovered a total of more than $27.1 billion through False Claims Act cases, with more than $17.1 billion of that amount recovered in cases involving fraud against federal health care programs. Tips and complaints from all sources about potential fraud, waste, abuse and mismanagement, including the conduct described in the United States complaint, can be reported to the Department of Health and Human Services, at 1-800-HHS-TIPS (1-800-447-8477).This matter was handled by Assistant U.S. Attorney Benjamin S. Schecter with the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Western District of Kentucky, HHS-OIG; Defense Criminal Investigative Services; and the Railroad Retirement Board, Office of the Inspector General.The case is captioned United States v. MD2U Holding Company et al., Case No. 3:16-cv-00440-GNS