Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch today released the following statement regarding this mornings shooting in Des Moines, Iowa:Good morning, everyone. Before we begin today, I want to take a moment to address the senseless attacks that claimed the lives of two police officers early this morning in Des Moines, Iowa. A suspect is in custody, and the Department of Justice has offered any and all assistance to our state and local counterparts as they investigate these appalling attacks. We will continue to monitor the situation, and our U.S. Attorneys Office in the Southern District of Iowa will remain in regular contact with local authorities.Violence has no place in the United States of America. It degrades our communities, and it demeans our values. And when that violence is coldly and deliberately directed at those who risk their lives to enforce the law and to keep us safe, it is especially intolerable. This tragic incident is yet another reminder of the tremendous dangers that law enforcement officers face each and every day. The men and women in law enforcement deserve our gratitude and our respect. And more than that, they deserve our support, which is why the Department of Justice is committed to doing everything we can to give police officers the tools, training, and equipment they need to do their jobs safely and effectively. And we are determined to hold to account anyone who targets police officers simply because they have the courage and the selflessness to wear the badge each and every day. I know that this is a time of particular tension and mistrust between law enforcement and many communities. I know that while we do not yet know what led the perpetrator to commit these awful crimes, many will be nevertheless be tempted to read a message or motive into this assault. But let me be clear: there is no message in murder. Violence creates nothing; it only destroys. And the path to the more just and peaceful society that we desire for ourselves and for our children is paved not with hatred and malice, but with compassion, and understanding, and the hard work of cooperation. Let those be our watchwords in the days to come.I ask that you keep the families and loved ones of the brave officers we lost this morning in your thoughts and prayers.