A Church Hill, Maryland, resident was sentenced today to 20 years in prison to be followed by a lifetime term of supervised release for enticement of a minor to engage in sexual activity and attempting to transfer obscene materials to a minor, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Kenneth A. Blanco of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and Acting U.S. Attorney Benjamin G. Greenberg of the Southern District of Florida.  Lee Robert Moore, 38, pleaded guilty March 1, 2017, before U.S. District Judge Daniel T. K. Hurley of the Southern District of Florida. Moore was employed by the U.S. Secret Service-Uniformed Division and was assigned to the White House at the time of his arrest on Nov. 9, 2015, and has remained in custody since that time. Moore has since been terminated from his Secret Service position. According to admissions made in connection with his plea, Moore maintained a profile on the social media application Meet24, which provides a mobile-based platform for exchanging digital images, as well as voice and text messages. Delaware State Police Detectives with the Delaware Child Predator Task Force created a profile on this site, posing as a 14-year-old girl, with whom Moore engaged in a number of online chat sessions, via the Meet24 and Kik mobile apps over a two-month period, including while Moore was at work. A number of the online chats between Moore and the undercover officers posing as a female minor were sexual in nature and, on several occasions, Moore sent pictures of himself, including one sexually explicit image.  According to the plea documents, after his arrest, law enforcement discovered that Moore had communicated with a minor in Florida. Moore admitted that in those communications, he sent sexually explicit images of himself and enticed the minor to send sexually explicit photos of herself as well. Moore engaged in the same type of behavior with a 14-year-old girl in Texas and another 17-year-old girl in Missouri. Moore requested that his federal charges in Delaware be transferred to the Southern District of Florida so that he could plead guilty to both charges at one time. U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations and the Delaware Child Predator Task Force investigated the case. Trial Attorney Austin M. Berry of the Criminal Divisions Child Exploitation and Obscenity Section (CEOS) and Assistant U.S. Attorney Corey Steinberg of the Southern District of Florida prosecuted the case, with assistance from the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Delaware.  None