  WASHINGTON  A settlement between the United States and the municipality of Arecibo, Puerto Rico, will resolve violations of the Clean Water Act and specifically violations of its Small Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System General Permit, the Department of Justice and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced today. This is the first judicial action addressing violations of this type of permit.  Arecibos violations include releases of storm water, untreated sewage and sewage sludge and other pollutants into the Rio Grande de Arecibo in violation of its permit and the Clean Water Act. Arecibo will pay a penalty of $305,643 and will invest an estimated $56 million in repairs and upgrades to its existing infrastructure.  Under the settlement, Arecibo is required to comply with its Municipal Separate Sewer System Permit and the Clean Water Act, improve its storm water management program, and build a new pump station and three retention basins. The new pump station and retention basins will enable Arecibo to better manage its storm water flow and prevent flooding in the downtown Arecibo area. Arecibo will further be required to repair, replace or construct storm sewer pipes as necessary and eliminate interconnections with the sanitary sewer systems. Replacing sewer pipe and eliminating interconnections will reduce discharges of sanitary wastes to the Rio Grande de Arecibo and eliminate sewer backups in residential homes.  This settlement will bring significant improvements to the Arecibo sewer system and cleaner water that the people of Arecibo will enjoy for many years to come, said Ignacia S. Moreno, Assistant Attorney General for the Environment and Natural Resources Division of the Department of Justice. It is another example of how the vigorous enforcement of the Clean Water Act protects citizens from the very real health threats posed by discharges of sewage contaminated stormwater.  This settlement will benefit public health by dramatically reducing the amount of sewage and other pollutants that get into the Rio Grande de Arecibo, said Judith A. Enck, Administrator for EPAs Region 2 Office. Todays agreement requires an investment in protecting community residents from exposure to raw sewage and contaminated stormwater, now, and into the future.  Municipal storm sewer systems collect rain from streets and drain to local rivers and streams. Sewage lines or industrial discharges can be improperly connected to the storm sewer, leading to raw sewage or other pollutants reaching water bodies. Discharges from municipal storm sewer systems can also include infiltration from cracked sanitary systems, spills collected by drain outlets, or paint or used oil dumped directly into a drain. These discharges contribute bacteria, heavy metals, toxics, oil and grease, solvents, nutrients, viruses and bacteria to receiving water bodies.None