Jason Michael Ludke, 35, of Milwaukee, Wisconsin has been charged in a criminal complaint with attempting to provide material support to the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), a designated foreign terrorist organization. Yosvany Padylla-Conde, 30, also of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, was charged in the same complaint with aiding and abetting Ludkes attempt to provide material support to ISIL.The announcement was made by Assistant Attorney General for National Security John P. Carlin and U.S. Attorney Gregory J. Haanstad of the Eastern District of Wisconsin.Ludke and Padylla-Conde were arrested near San Angelo, Texas. The complaint alleges that the two were traveling from Wisconsin to Mexico where they intended to acquire travel documents necessary to travel overseas to join ISIL.The United States is committed to identifying and arresting persons intent on providing material support to foreign terrorist organizations. Those organizations pose a threat to United States' interests at home and abroad. said U.S. Attorney Haanstad.Special Agent in Charge Justin Tolomeo of the FBIs Milwaukee Division stated Terrorism remains the FBIs top priority in keeping Americans safe. The arrest of these two individuals from Wisconsin, underscores how the real threat of terrorism can occur anywhere, at anytime. I would like to commend the efforts of the JTTF which includes a wide range of our law enforcement partners who work tirelessly for the safety of our citizens. We encourage all citizens to remain vigilant in reporting suspicious activity to law enforcement.If convicted of these offenses both men face up to 20 years in prison and a fine of up to $250,000.00.A criminal complaint is merely an allegation, and the defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law. The maximum statutory sentence is prescribed by Congress and is provided here for informational purposes. If convicted of any offense, the sentencing of the defendant will be determined by the court based on the advisory Sentencing Guidelines and other statutory factors.U.S Attorney Haanstad commends the investigation carried out by the FBI Joint Terrorism Task Force. The case will be prosecuted by Assistant U.S Attorney Paul L. Kanter of the Eastern District of Wisconsin, with assistance from Counterterrorism Section Trial Attorney Jolie Zimmerman.