An Indianapolis, Indiana immigration attorney pleaded guilty today for defrauding the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) and more than 250 of his clients by filing false visa applications and reaping approximately $750,000 in fraudulent fees. None None Individuals who commit immigration fraud undermine and abuse our generous immigration systema system that lawfully admits more immigrants than any other country in the worldand put our public safety and national security at risk, said Attorney General Sessions. President Trump promised voters he would return this country to a lawful system of immigration, and this Justice Department is committed to fulfilling that promise by rooting out fraud and abuse. We will not tolerate fraud at any level, and will bring those who engage in fraud to justice. According to the plea agreement, Paul admitted that from 2013 to 2017, he submitted more than 250 false Applications for Advance Permission to Enter as a Nonimmigrant on behalf of his clients and without their knowledge. Those applications falsely asserted that Pauls clients had been victims of a crime and had provided substantial assistance to law enforcement in investigating the crime. With approximately 200 of the false applications, Paul submitted unauthorized copies of a certification he had obtained from the U.S. Attorneys Office (USAO) for the Southern District of Indiana in 2013, using the certification without the USAOs knowledge to falsely claim that the applicant had provided substantial assistance in a criminal prosecution. In total, Paul charged his clients approximately $3,000 per application.  HSI investigated the case. Trial Attorneys Molly Gaston, Peter M. Nothstein, and Amanda Vaughn of the Criminal Divisions Public Integrity Section are prosecuting the case. NoneIndividuals who believe they may have been victims of the scheme described above or who have information about this matter can contact the Department of Justice by phone at (202) 514-1412. 