A Plainfield, New Jersey, man pleaded guilty today to one count of conspiring to engage in a racketeering enterprise known as La Mara Salvatrucha, or MS-13.Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman of the District of New Jersey and Acting Special Agent in Charge Richard M. Frankel of the FBIs Newark, New Jersey, Division made the announcement.Julio Adalberto Orellana-Carranza, aka Player, 27, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Stanley R. Chesler of the District of New Jersey, who scheduled sentencing for May 4, 2016. Orellana-Carranza remains detained pending sentencing.According to court documents, MS-13 is a national and international gang with branches or cliques operating throughout the United States, including in Plainfield. In connection with his plea, Orellana-Carranza admitted that he was a member of the Plainfield Locos Salvatrucha (PLS) Clique of MS-13 for a period of time continuing through at least August 2011. Orellana-Carranza admitted that in June 2011, he and other members of the PLS clique plotted to kill rival gang members in Plainfield. Orellana-Carranza also admitted that after local authorities arrested him for that plot, he and other jailed MS-13 members hatched a plan to intimidate and/or kill individuals they believed were cooperating with law enforcement in the prosecution of MS-13 members.Eleven other members and associates of the PLS Clique are scheduled for trial in front of Judge Chesler on Feb. 9, 2016. The charges include several counts of murder, conspiracy to commit murder, robbery, extortion, witness retaliation and sexual assault.Co-defendant Jose Romero-Aguirre, aka Conejo, pleaded guilty on Dec. 2, 2015.FBIs Newark Division, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Homeland Security Investigationss Newark Field Office, ICE-Enforcement and Removal Operations, the Plainfield Police Department and the Union County, New Jersey, Prosecutors Office investigated the case. Trial Attorney Kevin L. Rosenberg of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section and Assistant U.S. Attorneys James Donnelly and Jamari Buxton of the District of New Jersey are prosecuting this case.