  WASHINGTON  The United  States has entered into a settlement agreement with Pacific Health Corporation  (PHC) and related entities in which they agreed to pay the government and the state  of California $16.5 million for allegedly engaging in an illegal kickback  scheme in Los Angeles, the Justice Department announced today. The civil settlement resolves a U.S. and state  investigation of three PHC-affiliated hospitals for engaging in a scheme in  which the hospitals paid recruiters to deliver homeless Medicare or Medi-Cal  beneficiaries (homeless beneficiaries) by ambulance from the Skid Row area in  Los Angeles to the hospitals for treatment that often was medically  unnecessary.  The hospitals, Los Angeles Metropolitan Medical Center  (LA Metro); Newport Specialty Hospital, formerly known as Tustin Hospital and  Medical Center; and Anaheim General Hospital, then allegedly billed Medicare  and Medi-Cal for these services, violating rules that permit payment only for  necessary treatment. The governments contended that these services were induced  by illegal remuneration in violation of the Anti-Kickback statute (AKS), and  the resulting billings to Medicare and Medi-Cal violated the False Claims Act.  Also  as part of the resolution of this matter, a subsidiary of PHC, Los Angeles  Doctors Hospital Inc., has agreed to plead guilty to a federal conspiracy  charge arising out of the illegal kickback scheme. In addition, the three  hospitals, a fourth related hospital (Bellflower Medical Center), and their  related entities have entered into a corporate integrity agreement with the  Inspector General for the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services intended  to deter future misconduct. PHCs parent  corporation, Health Investment Corporation, also is a party to the civil  settlement and the corporate integrity agreement.  This settlement arises out of the same  investigation which in 2010 resulted in consent judgments against Intercare Health Systems Inc., formerly doing  business as City of Angels Medical Center, and its former owners Robert  Bourseau and Rudra Sabaratnam, for a similar illegal kickback scheme in Los  Angeles. Several individuals have pleaded  guilty in connection with the scheme, including Mr. Bourseau and Dr.  Sabaratnam, who were sentenced to three years and one month, and two years in  prison, respectively, for their part in the scheme.  Prohibitions against illegal kickbacks are  important to insure that financial motives do not undermine the integrity of  the medical judgment of physicians and other health care workers.  The integrity of government health care  programs is threatened when hospitals pay kickbacks to induce unnecessary or  unwanted medical care, said Stuart Delery, the Acting Assistant Attorney  General in charge of the Justice Departments Civil Division. Kickbacks  subvert medical decision making and cause government programs to pay much more  for services than would otherwise be warranted.  The investigation was handled by the U.S.  Attorney's Office for the Central District of  California, the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services, the FBI, the IRS-Criminal Investigation, the Justice  Departments Civil Division, the Attorney General's Office of the State of California, the  California Department of Justices Bureau of Medi-Cal Fraud and Elder Abuse and  the Health and Law Enforcement Team (HALT), a multi-agency task force operated  by the Los Angeles County Health Department.  This resolution is part of the governments emphasis  on combating health care fraud and another step for the Health Care Fraud  Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT) initiative, which was announced  by Attorney General Eric Holder and Kathleen Sebelius, Secretary of the  Department of Health and Human Services in May 2009. The partnership between  the two departments has focused efforts to reduce and prevent Medicare and  Medicaid financial fraud through enhanced cooperation. One of the most powerful  tools in that effort is the False Claims Act, which the Justice Department has  used to recover more than $9.2 billion since January 2009 in cases involving  fraud against federal health care programs. The Justice Departments total  recoveries in False Claims Act cases since January 2009 are over $12.8 billion.