The Department of Justice and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) today announced a final settlement with Millard Refrigerated Services that resolves alleged violations of the Clean Air Act, Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act and Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act violations for an airborne release of ammonia from Millards Theodore, Alabama, facility in 2010. Millard will pay a $3 million penalty for the violations that sickened 152 people responding to the BP oil spill. The release of ammonia from Millard's facilitycreated significant health problems, said Assistant Attorney General John C. Cruden for the Environment and Natural Resources Division. This settlement underscores how lapses in environmental management can have serious consequences, and today we are holding Millard accountable for this failure to ensure the safety of its workers and the surrounding community.The Clean Air Act exists to protect all of us from preventable threats to our health and safety, such as what happened in this case, said Keyon R. Brown, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Alabama. On behalf of the citizens of our district, I commend the hard work of the EPA and the Department of Justices Environmental and Natural Resources Division in achieving such a significant settlement that vindicates these interests."EPA is serious about holding companies that threaten peoples health and safety accountable, said Assistant Administrator Cynthia Giles for EPAs Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance. Its imperative that companies that use and store potentially-hazardous materials like ammonia ensure their operations do not pose a health risk to their employees or the public.On Aug. 23, 2010, the Millard Refrigerated Service warehouse in Theodore, Alabama, released approximately 32,000 pounds of anhydrous ammonia, to which exposure can be lethal, into the air after refrigeration equipment malfunctioned. The ammonia travelled directly over a site where more than 800 people were working on decontaminating ships responding to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. The Mobile, Alabama, Emergency Management Agency ordered an evacuation of the surrounding area and a one mile shelter in place situation following the ammonia release.NoneDuring its investigation of the warehouse after the ammonia release, EPA discovered that Millard failed to adequately address a well-known risk for ammonia production systems called hydraulic shock, which can cause catastrophic equipment failures. These failures can lead to hazardous releases of anhydrous ammonia. The companys failure to address this risk, in addition to other deficiencies in its production and safety systems, amounted to 37 distinct violations of the Clean Air Acts Risk Management Program and General Duty Clause. These requirements compel companies that store or use potentially-hazardous substances like ammonia to identify the hazards posed by their operation, design and maintain a safe facility and minimize the consequences of any releases that might occur. The companys failure to immediately report a release of anhydrous ammonia above the reportable quantity to the National Response Center amounted to one CERCLA violation. The companys failure to immediately report a release of anhydrous ammonia to the local and state emergency planning commissions and to file a follow-up reports for two releases amounted to three EPCRA violations.EPA also discovered that Millard had two prior smaller ammonia releases caused by hydraulic shock, which should have signaled a need to take steps to prevent a catastrophic release like the one that occurred at the Theodore warehouse. Millard sold the Theodore warehouse facility, which is no longer in operation.The settlement was entered in the District Court in Mobile, Alabama.None