Three Northern California real estate investors have agreed to plead guilty for their roles in conspiracies to rig bids and commit mail fraud at public real estate foreclosure auctions in Northern California, the Department of Justice announced.Felony charges were filed today in U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California in Oakland against Rudolph Silva of Concord, Calif., Thomas Bishop of Pleasant Hill, Calif., and Leslie Gee of Danville, Calif. Including Silva, Bishop and Gee, a total of 43 individuals have pleaded guilty or agreed to plead guilty as a result of the departments ongoing antitrust investigations into bid rigging and fraud at public real estate foreclosure auctions in Northern California.None"Todays plea agreements are the latest step in the Antitrust Divisions efforts to hold accountable investors for their fraudulent and collusive activities at real estate foreclosure auctions, said Bill Baer, Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Department of Justices Antitrust Division. The division will continue to prosecute individuals who participated in illegal conspiracies and harmed distressed homeowners and lenders.The department said that the primary purpose of the conspiracies was to suppress and restrain competition and to conceal payoffs in order to obtain selected real estate offered at Alameda and Contra Costa County public foreclosure auctions at non-competitive prices. When real estate properties are sold at these auctions, the proceeds are used to pay off the mortgage and other debt attached to the property, with remaining proceeds, if any, paid to the homeowner. According to court documents, these conspirators paid and received money that otherwise would have gone to pay off the mortgage and other holders of debt secured by the properties, and in some cases, the defaulting homeowner.The FBI and our partners have an obligation to investigate and pursue those who disrupt a free and fair marketplace, said FBI Special Agent in Charge David J. Johnson of the San Francisco Field Office. We will continue to educate the public on the criminality of bid rigging at real estate foreclosure auctions.A violation of the Sherman Act carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $1 million fine for individuals. The maximum fine for the Sherman Act charges may be increased to twice the gain derived from the crime or twice the loss suffered by the victims if either amount is greater than $1 million. A count of conspiracy to commit mail fraud carries a maximum sentence of 30 years in prison and a $1 million fine. The government can also seek to forfeit the proceeds earned from participating in the conspiracy to commit mail fraud.None**The fraud charge(s) referenced in this press release were subsequently dismissed on the governments motion.**