Ten Puerto Rico businessmen and government officials have been indicted for their alleged participation in several schemes to corruptly give things of value to public officials within the government of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico in exchange for favorable treatment and awarding of government contracts to various corporations. The 25-count indictment includes charges of conspiracy to commit federal programs bribery and honest services wire fraud, wire fraud, federal program bribery, extortion through fear of economic harm, money laundering, false declarations before a grand jury and obstruction of justice, announced U.S. Attorney Rosa Emilia Rodrguez-Vlez of the District of Puerto Rico. The FBI is in charge of the investigation.A federal grand jury in the District of Puerto Rico returned the indictment on Dec. 2, 2015, which includes 25 charges against the following individuals:10. Glenn O. Rivera Pizarro, special assistant for administration at the House of Representatives of Puerto Rico.According to the indictment, Hernndez Prez utilized his political and personal connections with high ranking members of the current government in order to have his people appointed in critical government positions within the new administration which took over after the November 2012 elections. He also provided those individuals with things of value in exchange for government contracts, benefits and preferential treatment for several of his corporations. The indictment focuses on benefits Hernndez Prez, his co-conspirators and corporate entities, obtained from the Commonwealth of Puerto Ricos ADL, the Commonwealth of Puerto Ricos AAA and the Puerto Rico House of Representatives. The three schemes detailed in the indictment essentially followed the same modus operandi.The indictment alleges that beginning in or about late 2012 and continuing in or about early 2013, Hernndez Prez and several unindicted co-conspirators formalized their plans to obtain government contracts with numerous governmental entities. Hernndez Prez utilized his personal friendship with Person B (brother of the governor of Puerto Rico, identified as Person A in the indictment), and the good will generated by his substantial fundraising activities during the 2012 election cycle, to position himself to successfully make recommendations on behalf of individuals seeking government appointments and employment after the election.Hernndez Prez received numerous emails and resumes from individuals seeking his assistance in obtaining positions within the newly elected government. Hernndez Prez, in turn, forwarded many of those emails to government officials, and to the governors brother, Person B. Many of these individuals ultimately received government employment. Hernndez Prez and his co-conspirators then set out to form and make alliances with various corporations and limited liability companies that would be used to obtain government contracts, proposals and purchase orders. These companies included: 3 Comm Global Inc., Links Group LLC, EKO Technologies LLC, JM Profesional (sic) & Training Group Inc. and Waffler Avenue LLC. Some of these corporations were formed immediately prior to, or after, the general elections of November 2012.Hernndez Prez and his co-conspirators were careful to ensure that his name did not appear on any official documentation regarding the formation of the corporations, or on any formal request for government contracts, proposals or purchase orders. Hernndez Prez, however, was present in numerous meetings where the proposals were discussed, was included in internal electronic and oral communications regarding these matters, and received payment from the contracts into corporate bank accounts and other suspicious transactions.Many of the individuals recommended by Hernndez Prez whom obtained the jobs, ultimately had the authority to approve or authorize contracts, purchase orders, and other financial obligations on behalf of their respective agencies, departments or public corporations, and in return for the recommendations for employment, and/or other things of value, authorized contracts, purchase orders, proposals and payments on behalf of the co-conspirators and their corporations.Hernndez Prez and his co-conspirators offered and gave, and the public officials solicited and accepted from Hernndez Prez and his co-conspirators, things of value, including expensive meals, personal gifts, expensive fountain pens, purses, bags, concert tickets and the payment of certain accrued debts. Hernndez Prez allegedly kept written electronic records regarding the purpose of his government related business meetings, and the things of value provided to each of these individuals.Hernndez Prez and his co-conspirators utilized their government influence to receive an unfair competitive advantage over their competitors, in that they: a) received preferred opportunities on certain government request for proposals (RFPs); b) received guidance from agency employees on the proper format and content of proposals and bids for government contracts; c) had access to speak and meet with critical employees in decision making positions within the agencies, departments and government corporations; d) received guidance on how to structure bids and proposals in order to avoid the formal bidding process required by law; e) demanded and were provided with explanations from agency employees when their proposals or bids were not selected.Once awarded the government contracts, Hernndez Prez and his co-conspirators would utilize, often without proper contractual authority, subcontractors who would perform the work defined in the contracts. On many occasions, Hernndez Prez and his co-conspirators provided substandard work on their contractual obligations in that they: failed to make the required payments to suppliers, subcontractors and creditors; failed to abide by the terms of the contract regarding performance results/follow up as required under the contract; failed to competently provide the services they were contracted to perform.Hernndez Prez is also charged, along with defendants Ivonne Falcn and Marielis Falcn, with Hobbs Act extortion under fear of economic harm. Hernndez Prez and unindicted co-conspirators would utilize their contacts and influence within at least one government dependency (the AAA) to secure, for a fee, the release of legitimate payments due to other corporations, which lacked the current connections within the government. In particular, Hernndez Prez and his associates, obtained property not due to them, specifically, $100,000.00 from Contractor A, in exchange for utilizing his connections within AAA in order to secure a portion of the money owed (approximately $1 million) to Contractor A, with Contractor As consent, induced through the wrongful use of a fear of economic loss. Moreover, the Falcn sisters aided and abetted each other to commit extortion. Defendant Ivonne M. Falcn Nieves utilized her position at AAA in order to enable her sister, defendant Marielis Falcn Nieves, to obtain property not due to her, specifically, cash payments, check payments, payments to contractors, and the performance of residential tree trimming, from Contractor A, with Contractor As consent, induced through the wrongful use of a fear of economic loss.The 25 counts detailed in the indictment are as follows:For decades now, political cronyism, favoritism and corruption have robbed the people of Puerto Rico of the right to decent services and unbiased representation, including legally awarded government contracts, said U.S. Attorney Rodrguez Vlez. The people of Puerto Rico foot the bill for the underhanded dealings detailed in the indictment. The time for government cronyism that allows some to line their pockets with ill-gotten contracts at the expense of the many, is over. The time for public servants who trade their duty to represent the people of Puerto Rico in exchange for political appointments and gifts, is also over. The people of Puerto Rico deserve the honest services of, not only those in their government, but those who choose to do business with the government. Their violations of the public trust will be prosecuted to the full extent of the law.Unfortunately, this is one more case of graft, greed and corruption that over the last 20 years have contributed to the government of Puerto Ricos fragile financial condition and on the brink of bankruptcy, said Special Agent in Charge Carlos Cases of the FBIs San Juan Division. It is the responsibility of the leaders of the government of Puerto Rico to ensure this type of reprehensible and corrupt behavior does not occur. The FBI, along with the United States Attorneys Office, District of Puerto Rico, will always remain vigilant and attack the corruption threat with undeniable and fervent passion. Let there be no doubt this is only the beginning and the investigation will continue. There will be no stone left unturned.The case is being investigated by the FBIs San Juan Division. The case is being prosecuted by First Assistant U.S. Attorney Timothy Henwood and Jos Cap Iriarte of the District of Puerto Rico, Deputy Chief of the Financial Fraud and Corruption Unit. If found guilty, the defendants are facing possible sentences of up to five years for the conspiracy to commit federal programs fraud and wire fraud, up to 10 years for honest services fraud, up to 20 years for money laundering, Hobbs Act, obstruction of justice and conspiracy to commit honest services fraud.The charges contained in the indictment are merely accusations. The defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.