  The remaining two defendants of  36 accused in the Southern District of Texas of racketeering activities as part  of their roles with the Aryan Brotherhood of Texas (ABT) have pleaded guilty,  capping a six-year sweeping effort that has led to 73 convictions across five  federal districts and the decimation of the gangs leadership and violent  members and associates.   Those convicted  were charged with involvement in a criminal organization that engaged in  murders, kidnappings, brutal beatings, fire bombings and drug trafficking.   Assistant Attorney General Leslie  R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Kenneth  Magidson of the Southern District of Texas, Special Agent in Charge Robert W.  Elder of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF)s Houston  Field Division, Special Agent in Charge Perrye K. Turner of the FBIs Houston  Field Division and Special Agent in Charge David M. Marwell of the Homeland  Security Investigations Dallas Field Division made the announcement.   The Aryan Brotherhood of Texas  launched its murderous and racist ideology within the Texas prisons, but  unleashed a violent crime wave that jumped the prison walls and spread like a  virus, said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell.  Today we are announcing  sweeping convictions that strike at the heart of the ABT gang: 73 convictions in  five federal districts, including the five active generals who ran the  organization with an iron fist.   These  convictions will ensure that these ABT gang members, from generals to soldiers,  spend their years in federal prison paying for their crimes, not committing new  ones.   Today, public safety is the  winner, said U.S. Attorney Magidson.    A significant blow to the ABT criminal activities culminated today with  the convictions of all 36 as charged in relation to this significant  racketeering activity. Only with a coordinated federal, state and local law  enforcement effort, could these criminals extensive and heinous gang activities  be brought before the bar of justice.   Rusty Eugene Duke of Dallas,  Texas, pleaded guilty today before U.S. District Judge Sim Lake in the Southern  District of Texas to one count of conspiracy to participate in racketeering  activity.   Tammy Melissa Wall of Otto,  North Carolina, pleaded guilty to the same charge on Aug. 6, 2014.   Duke and Wall are two of 36 defendants  charged in the Southern District of Texas with conducting racketeering activity  through the ABT criminal enterprise, among other charges.   With Dukes plea today, all 36 defendants  have pleaded guilty.   The 36 convicted are part of a  larger, six-year effort that has led to the conviction of 73 ABT members and  associates in cases brought in the Southern District of Texas, Eastern District  of Texas, Western District of Texas, Northern District of Texas and Western  District of Oklahoma.   Today marks a great day for  the citizens of Texas, said ATF Special Agent in Charge Elder.   As they go about their daily lives, they can  rest easier knowing that law enforcement across the state is working tirelessly  to keep them safe from violent criminals. Finally, this investigation is a great  example of ATFs Frontline Model, which seeks to go after the very worst  offenders by maximizing all of our resources.   While these convictions have  dealt a serious blow to the gang, there are always others waiting to take their  place in the organization, said FBI Special Agent in Charge Turner.   We have a message for them too: Violence and  intimidation will not rule the streets of Houston. The FBI and our law  enforcement partners will relentlessly pursue gang leaders and their associates  at every level to ensure the safety of our communities. None   Court documents portray the ABT  as a highly structured organization run by five generals, each of whom oversees  one of five geographic regions of Texas and sits on a steering committee.   Each general supervises two chains of command  one on the inside and one on the outside of prison.   Reporting to each general is an inside  major and an outside major and each major oversees several captains,  lieutenants and sergeants-at-arms and numerous soldiers.   In this prosecution, all five  active ABT generals have been convicted, as well as one acting general and one  former general and founding member.   In  addition, the majors, captains and other leaders of the gang from each of the  five regions  including Duke  were convicted.   ABT enforced its rules and  promotes discipline among its members, prospects and associates through murder,  attempted murder, arson, assault, robbery and threats against those who violated  ABT rules or posed a threat to the enterprise.    Members, and oftentimes associates, were required to follow the orders of  higher-ranking members, referred to as direct orders.   For example, according to court records, ABT  leaders ordered a subordinate to kill a rogue ABT prospect and return the  victims severed finger as a trophy, engaged in planning to kill a police  officer, and ordered the murder of an individual whom the ABT believed had  stolen drugs from the enterprise.   Duke, Wall and numerous ABT gang  members met on a regular basis at various locations throughout Texas to report  on gang-related business, collect dues, commit disciplinary assaults against  fellow gang members and discuss acts of violence against rival gang members,  among other things.   While females are  not allowed to become members of the ABT, Wall and other women convicted in this  case associated with the ABT, served as communication hubs for the gang, and  engaged in criminal activity for the benefit of the ABT.   By pleading guilty to  racketeering charges, Duke and Wall admitted to being members of the ABT  criminal enterprise.   They are both  scheduled to be sentenced on Oct. 29, 2014. None   The case is being prosecuted by David Karpel of the Criminal Divisions  Organized Crime and Gang Section and Ed Gallagher and Tim Braley of the U.S.  Attorneys Office for the Southern District of Texas.