NoneNone   Peter Xuong Lam of Fairfax, Va., who was the president of Virginia Star Seafood Corp., was sentenced late yesterday afternoon by U.S. District Judge Philip S. Gutierrez for the Central District of California. In addition to the prison term, Judge Gutierrez ordered Lam to forfeit more than $12 million to the government for anti-dumping duties avoided.  A second man involved in the scheme, Arthur Yavelberg of Reston, Va., who was the president of Silver Seas, a Virginia-based fish importer, was also sentenced yesterday for his role in the conspiracy to import mislabeled fish to avoid federal tariffs. Judge Gutierrez sentenced Yavelberg to a one year period of probation.  The cases against Lam and Yavelberg are part of an ongoing prosecution of importers and seafood dealers who worked together to import catfish from Vietnam and sell frozen fillets that were falsely labeled as more desirable and more expensive fish.  Following a three-week trial, Lam was convicted last October of conspiring to import mislabeled fish in order to avoid federal import tariffs and three counts of dealing in fish that he knew had been imported contrary to law. At the same trial, Yavelberg was convicted of a misdemeanor conspiracy count.None  To date, a dozen individuals and companies have been convicted of criminal charges related to the scheme to avoid paying tariffs by falsely labeling fish for import and then selling it in the United States at below-market price. The organizer of the smuggling conspiracy, Henry Nguyen, remains a fugitive and is believed to be residing in Vietnam.  Major sentences for those involved include:  The case was investigated by Special Agents of National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Fisheries, Office of Law Enforcement; Food and Drug Administrations Office of Criminal Investigations; and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Senior Trial Attorney Elinor Colbourn and Assistant U.S. Attorney Joseph Johns, Chief of Environmental Crimes in the U.S. Attorneys Office in Los Angeles, prosecuted the case. 