  WASHINGTON  Ather Ali of Diamond Bar, Calif., pleaded guilty today to conspiracy to defraud the United States, the Justice Department and Internal Revenue Service (IRS) announced.None  According to the indictment, in 2002 and 2003 Amin and Ali filed at least 250 fraudulent returns, falsely stating that these deceased individuals earned wages from which income tax was withheld. These false returns claimed more than $2 million in income tax refunds. Although the IRS rejected the bulk of these refund claims, a number of refund checks were issued and delivered to addresses controlled by Amin, Ali and their co-conspirators, including various mailboxes opened by Ali. Most of these refund checks then were delivered overseas to be deposited in bank accounts in Armenia and Pakistan.  Ali admitted that he was a knowing participant in this scheme. According to the indictment and statements made at the plea hearing, Ali and his co-conspirators prepared various false tax returns using deceased peoples Social Security numbers and other identification information obtained from the Internet. The returns filed as part of the scheme had fictitious Form W-2 wage and tax statements as attachments, falsely stating that the deceased people earned income from various employers. Ali and his co-conspirators created fake W-2 Forms using employer identification numbers that they had obtained from an acquaintance of Amins, who was a certified public accountant. Ali admitted using fake forms of identification to open mailboxes in the names of deceased people, from which he collected a number of these fraudulently obtained tax refund checks.  Judge Robert H. Whaley scheduled Alis sentencing for June 22, 2010. Ali faces a maximum sentence of five years in prison and a maximum fine of $250,000.  John A. DiCicco, Acting Assistant Attorney General of the Justice Departments Tax Division, commended the efforts of agents from the IRS Criminal Investigation Division in Laguna Niguel, Calif, as well as Assistant U.S. Attorney Charles E. Pell and Tax Division trial attorney Joseph A. Rillotta, who are prosecuting the case.None