    The Justice Department announced today that Assistant Attorney General for Legislative Affairs Ronald Weich will be leaving the department to join the University of Baltimore School of Law as its new dean.  Assistant Attorney General Weich was appointed by President Obama and confirmed by the Senate in April, 2009.     Judith C. Appelbaum, who has served as a deputy assistant attorney general in the Office of Legislative Affairs (OLA), will serve as acting assistant attorney general following Weichs departure.     Rons leadership has been instrumental in realizing crucial legislative achievements, and I thank him for his tireless advocacy of department priorities, said Attorney General Eric Holder.  I am proud of the work done by the Office of Legislative Affairs under Rons watch to advance legislation vital to ensuring justice.    Serving the department has been a tremendous privilege, and Im pleased with OLAs accomplishments over the last three years, said Assistant Attorney General Weich.  We have worked effectively with Congress to advance the mission and goals of the Justice Department.     Under the leadership of Assistant Attorney General Weich, the Office of Legislative Affairs has worked to strengthen the departments relationship with Congress. The office has represented the department in connection with numerous legislative achievements on issues of central importance to the department, including the Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act; the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act and the Tribal Law and Order Act.     The office also has worked to advance measures that have not yet been enacted, including the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2012, the FISA Amendments Extension Act and the Nuclear Terrorism Conventions Implementation Act.       Assistant Attorney General Weich also managed the departments efforts to obtain Senate confirmation of numerous senior department officials, including the deputy attorney general, assistant attorneys general, law enforcement component heads, U.S. attorneys and U.S. marshals.     Prior to joining the Justice Department, Assistant Attorney General Weich served as chief counsel to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid.  He earlier served as counsel to Senators Edward M. Kennedy and Arlen Specter, and as a partner in the law firm of Zuckerman Spaeder LLP.None