  Ahmed Abu Khatallah, aka Ahmed Mukatalah, a Libyan national approximately 43  years of age, has been charged for his alleged participation in the Sept. 11,  2012, attack on the U.S. Special Mission and Annex in Benghazi, Libya, which  resulted in the deaths of four Americans.  Our nations memory is long, and our reach is far, said U.S. Attorney  General Eric Holder.  The arrest of Ahmed Abu Khatallah represents a  significant milestone in our efforts to ensure justice is served for the heinous  and cowardly attack on the U.S. diplomatic facility in Benghazi.  Since that  attack  which caused the deaths of Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens, Sean  Smith, Tyrone Woods and Glen Doherty  we have conducted a thorough, unrelenting  investigation, across continents, to find the perpetrators.  The arrest of  Khatallah proves that the U.S. government will expend any effort necessary to  pursue terrorists who harm our citizens.  Khatallah currently faces criminal  charges on three counts, and we retain the option of adding additional charges  in the coming days.  Even as we begin the process of putting Khatallah on trial  and seeking his conviction before a jury, our investigation will remain ongoing  as we work to identify and arrest any co-conspirators.  This is our pledge; we  owe the victims of the Benghazi attack and their loved ones nothing less.  The terrorist attacks on our diplomatic facilities in Benghazi were an  affront to our nation and heartbreaking for the families of the four courageous  Americans who perished that day, said John Carlin, Assistant Attorney General  for the National Security Division.  Capturing Ahmed Abu Khatallah was a  critical step toward bringing him to justice, and we will not rest in our  pursuit of the others who attacked our facilities and killed our citizens.NoneNone  -- Killing a person in the course of an attack on a federal facility  involving the use of a firearm and dangerous weapon and attempting and  conspiring to do the same.  -- Providing, attempting and conspiring to provide material support to  terrorists resulting in death.NoneNone  The case is being investigated by the FBIs New York Field Office with  substantial assistance from various other government agencies.  The case is  being prosecuted by the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Columbia and  the National Security Division of the U.S.  Department of Justice.Complaint