None  The trial against Lopez and Kuhrt spanned five weeks. After approximately three days of deliberations, the jury found both Lopez, 70, and Kuhrt, 40, both of Houston, guilty of 10 of 11 counts in the indictment. Each defendant was convicted of one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud and nine counts of wire fraud. Each was found not guilty on one wire fraud count. Both defendants were taken into custody immediately following the jurys verdict.  In addition to the prison terms, U.S. District Judge David Hittner, who presided over the trial, sentenced Lopez and Kuhrt to serve three years of supervised release and ordered Lopez to pay a $25,000 fine. At todays hearing, Judge Hittner also found that both defendants obstructed justice by committing perjury at trial.  Stanford, who was previously convicted in a separate trial, illegally used billions of dollars of SIBs assets to fund his personal business ventures, to live a lavish lifestyle and for other improper purposes. He was later sentenced to 110 years in prison. James M. Davis, Stanfords chief financial officer  who pleaded guilty and cooperated with the government soon after SIB was shut down in February 2009 and testified at both Stanfords trial and the trial of Lopez and Kuhrt  was sentenced to 60 months in prison for his role in the scheme.  The evidence presented at Lopez and Kuhrts trial established that they were aware of and tracked Stanfords misuse of SIBs assets, kept the misuse hidden from the public and from almost all of Stanfords other employees and worked behind the scenes to prevent the misuse from being discovered. They also helped Stanford falsely represent to SIB customers during the economic crash in late 2008 that Stanford had infused hundreds of millions of dollars into SIB when he had not. As part of that effort, Lopez and Kuhrt helped design a fraudulent real estate transaction that involved falsely inflating parcels of land purchased at $63.5 million to a purported value of $3.2 billion.  The investigation was conducted by the FBI, U.S. Postal Inspection Service, IRS-CI and the U.S. Department of Labor, Employee Benefits Security Administration. The case was prosecuted by Deputy Chief Jeffrey Goldberg and Trial Attorney Andrew Warren of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section, and by Assistant U.S. Attorney Jason Varnado of the Southern District of Texas.