A lieutenant commander in the U.S. Navy pleaded guilty to bribery charges in federal court today, admitting that he accepted cash, hotel expenses and the services of a prostitute in return for providing classified U.S. Navy ship schedules and other internal Navy information to an executive of a defense contracting firm.Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Laura E. Duffy of the Southern District of California, Deputy Inspector General for Investigations James B. Burch of the Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS), Director Andrew L. Traver of the Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS) and Director Anita Bales of the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) made the announcement.Another Navy officer has now pleaded guilty and admitted to taking bribes to reveal classified military information to a major supplier, said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. It is both troubling and disappointing how many Navy officers we have exposed as willingly falling prey to GDMAs corruption, and our investigation remains active and ongoing. Those who serve in our nations military must uphold the publics trust or pay the consequences for their crimes.The receipt of envelopes of cash and lavish hotel stays by our public officials at whatever level erodes the publics trust in our institutions and our government, said U.S. Attorney Duffy. Todays guilty plea reflects the next step in our ongoing effort to regain that public trust.Todd Dale Malaki, 44, of San Diego, pleaded guilty before U.S. Magistrate Judge Mitchell D. Dembin of the Southern District of California to one count of conspiracy to commit bribery. A sentencing hearing is scheduled for July 6, 2015.As part of his guilty plea, Malaki admitted that in 2006, while he was working as a supply officer for the U.S. Navys Seventh Fleet, he began a corrupt relationship with Leonard Glenn Francis, the former president and chief executive officer of Glenn Defense Marine Asia (GDMA), a company that provided services to the U.S. Navy. As part of the scheme, Malaki provided Francis with classified U.S. Navy ship schedules and proprietary invoicing information about GDMAs competitors. In exchange, Malaki admitted that Francis provided him with luxury hotel stays in Singapore, Hong Kong and the island of Tonga, as well as envelopes of cash, entertainment expenses and the services of a prostitute. Malaki admitted that the total value of the benefits he received was approximately $15,000.Malaki is the eighth individual to plead guilty in this expanding probe into corruption and fraud in the U.S. Navy. GDMA pleaded guilty in January. Two other individuals, Paul Simpkins, formerly a Department of Defense (DOD) contracting officer, and Michael Misiewicz, a Captain-select in the U.S. Navy, have been charged and entered pleas of not guilty.The ongoing investigation is being conducted by NCIS and DCIS, with substantial assistance from the DCAA. The case is being prosecuted by Senior Trial Attorney Brian R. Young of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Mark W. Pletcher and Robert S. Huie of the Southern District of California.None