The U.S. Department of Justice today filed a civil action in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of California against the State of California, Governor of California Edmund G. Jerry Brown Jr., and the California State Lands Commission, seeking a declaration that California Senate Bill 50 (SB 50), enacted in October 2017, is unconstitutional and seeking an injunction against implementation of this state law. This California law purports to give a state agency the power to block the sale, donation or exchange of federal lands by the federal government to any other person or entity. SB 50 also seeks to penalize (up to $5,000) any person who knowingly files real estate records pertaining to a federal land transfer unless the California government certifies that the transfer complies with state law.The Constitution empowers the federal governmentnot state legislaturesto decide when and how federal lands are sold, said Attorney General Jeff Sessions. California was admitted to the Union upon the express condition that it would never interfere with the disposal of federal land. And yet, once again, the California legislature has enacted an extreme state law attempting to frustrate federal policy. The Justice Department shouldn't have to spend valuable time and resources to file this suit today, but we have a duty to defend the rightful prerogatives of the U.S. military, the Interior Department, and other federal agencies to buy, sell, exchange or donate federal properties in a lawful manner in the national interest. We are confident that we will prevail in this casebecause the facts are on our side.Since the founding of the Republic, it has been fundamental to our constitutional system that a state may not discriminate against the United States or those with whom it deals, said U.S. Attorney McGregor W. Scott for the Eastern District of California. We will vigorously defend this principle.NoneThe Supremacy Clause of the Constitution provides: This Constitution, and the Laws of the United States which shall be made in Pursuance thereof . . . , shall be the supreme Law of the Land; and the Judges in every State shall be bound thereby; any Thing in the Constitution or Laws of any State to the Contrary notwithstanding. U.S. Const. art. VI, cl. 2.The Property Clause of the Constitution provides that Congress shall have Power to dispose of and make all needful Rules and Regulations respecting the Territory or other Property belonging to the United States. U.S. Const. art. IV,  3, cl. 2.NoneThe United States is represented in this action by Acting Assistant Attorney General Jeffrey H. Wood of the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division, with lead counsel Deputy Assistant Attorney General Eric Grant, Justin Heminger, Stacy Stoller and Peter McVeigh, and Civil Chief David Shelledy of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of California.