NoneNone  The evidence presented at trial showed that Garrison wrote prescriptions for power wheelchairs, which the beneficiaries did not need and did not use. In some cases, Garrison wrote power wheelchair prescriptions for beneficiaries he never examined and who never visited the clinics and, in one instance, prescribed a power wheelchair to a beneficiary who the evidence showed suffered from a mental defect and did not have the mental capacity to operate a power wheelchair. Several Medicare beneficiaries testified that they were approached by patient recruiters who convinced them to accept free power wheelchairs, but that they never went to the medical clinics and were never examined by Garrison.  Once Garrison wrote the power wheelchair prescriptions, Aslanyan and others sold them from $1,000 to $1,500 to the owners and operators of approximately 50 different fraudulent DME supply companies, which used the prescriptions to submit fraudulent power wheelchair claims to Medicare. The DME supply companies purchased the power wheelchairs wholesale for approximately $900 per wheelchair but billed the wheelchairs to Medicare at a rate of approximately $5,000 per wheelchair. Aslanyan also used the prescriptions Garrison wrote at Vila Medical and Blanc Medical Supply, another fraudulent DME supply company that Aslanyan owned and operated. When the owners and operators of the DME supply companies complained to Aslanyan and others about Garrisons prescriptions looking the same, witness testimony established that Garrison changed the signature he used on the prescriptions.  In addition, the trial evidence showed that Garrison ordered the same medically-unnecessary diagnostic tests for every Medicare beneficiary, including tests for sleep studies, ultrasounds and nerve conduction. These tests were then billed to Medicare by fraudulent diagnostic testing companies that paid Aslanyan kickbacks to operate from the medical clinics.  Throughout the trial, evidence was introduced that showed that Garrison had admitted to writing prescriptions for power wheelchairs and ordered diagnostic tests on behalf of approximately six different doctors, and that he did not have a Delegation of Services Agreement with at least two of these doctors, as required by law.  As a result of this fraud scheme, Garrison, Aslanyan, and their co-conspirators submitted and caused the submission of over $18 million in false and fraudulent claims to Medicare, and received $10.7 million on those claims.  At sentencing, scheduled for Sept. 17, 2012, Garrison faces a maximum penalty of 72 years in prison and a $2 million fine. The aggravated identity theft conviction carries a mandatory two year prison sentence. In 2009 and 2010, Garrison was convicted on state charges of tax evasion and felonious possession of a firearm. Currently, Garrison is facing federal drug charges as a result of his alleged involvement with another medical clinic where medically-unnecessary prescriptions for Oxycontin were distributed. Garrison is scheduled for trial on the federal drug charges on Nov. 6, 2012. He is presumed innocent of the charges against him.  The jurys verdict was announced by Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Criminal Division; U.S. Attorney Andr Birotte Jr. for the Central District of California; Tony Sidley, Assistant Chief of the California Department of Justice, Bureau of Medi-Cal Fraud and Elder Abuse; Glenn R. Ferry, Special Agent-in-Charge for the Los Angeles Region of the HHS Office of Inspector General (HHS-OIG); and Steven Martinez, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBIs Los Angeles Field Office.  The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Jonathan T. Baum of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney David Kirman of the Central District of California. The case is being investigated by the FBI.  The case was brought as part of the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, supervised by the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Central District of California. The Medicare Fraud Strike Force operations are part of the Health Care Fraud Prevention & Enforcement Action Team (HEAT), a joint initiative announced in May 2009 between the Department of Justice and HHS to focus their efforts to prevent and deter fraud and enforce current anti-fraud laws around the country.  Since their inception in March 2007, strike force operations in nine districts have charged 1,330 defendants who collectively have falsely billed the Medicare program for more than $4 billion. In addition, the HHS Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, working in conjunction with the HHS-OIG, are taking steps to increase accountability and decrease the presence of fraudulent providers.None