Harlem Suarez, a/k/a Almlak Benitez, 23, of Monroe County, Florida was convicted by a federal jury of attempting to use a weapon of mass destruction, specifically, an explosive device, and providing material support to the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), a designated foreign terrorist organization. None Harlem Suarez, a self-professed ISIL adherent, attempted to use a weapon of mass destruction - a backpack bomb - in the United States and now stands convicted of two terrorism offenses, said Acting Assistant Attorney General McCord. Stopping attacks on our homeland by those inspired or directed by designated foreign terrorist organizations is the highest priority of the National Security Division. I want to thank the agents, analysts, and prosecutors who are responsible for todays result. By intending to place an explosive device on a public beach, Harlem Suarez posed a grave threat to the residents and visitors of Key West, stated U.S. Attorney Ferrer. It is because of the Joint Terrorism Task Forces unwavering commitment to our national security that law enforcement is able to prevent potential attacks on American soil that are inspired or directed by terrorist organizations. Let this case serve as an example to others that the U.S. Attorneys Office and our law enforcement partners stand as a united front against all domestic threats. "Suarez wanted to kill innocent people by detonating a nail laced explosive filled backpack on a crowded Key West beach," said Special Agent in Charge Piro. He was denied his terroristic dreams by several hardworking, dedicated law enforcement organizations and professionals. This is a job well done." None According to evidence introduced at trial, in April 2015, Suarezs Facebook postings contained extremist rhetoric and promoted ISIL. Evidence further indicated that Suarez told an FBI confidential human source that he wanted to make a timer bomb. Suarez purchased components for this device, which was to contain galvanized nails, be concealed in a backpack and be remotely detonated by a cellular telephone. Suarez intended to bury the device at a public beach in Key West and then detonate it. Trial evidence showed that on July 27, 2015, Suarez took possession of an inert explosive device and was arrested.  Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI; FBI-JTTF; Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives; U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Homeland Security Investigations; the Key West Police Department; Monroe County Sheriffs Office in Florida; and Palm Beach County Sheriffs Office in Florida. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Marc S. Anton and Karen E. Gilbert, with assistance from the National Security Divisions Counterterrorism Section.