None In September of last year, the department issued an extensive findings letter, notifying the state that it is in violation of the ADA. The letter found that the states failure to provide access to necessary community services and supports was leading to children with significant medical needs being unnecessarily institutionalized in, or being placed at serious risk of entering nursing facilities. The letter identified the numerous ways in which state policies and practices have limited the availability of access to medically necessary in-home services for children with significant medical needs. Additionally, the states screening and transition planning processes have been plagued with deficiencies. Some children have spent years in a nursing facility before receiving screening required under federal law to determine whether they actually need to be in a nursing facility. As a result of the states actions and inaction, the state has forced some families to face the cruel choice of fearing for their childs life at home or placing their child in a nursing facility. In one instance, the state cut one childs in-home health care in half. Her family could not safely provide care themselves to make up for this reduction in services, and they felt they had no choice but to place her in a nursing home. Another child who entered a nursing facility as a young child spent almost six years in a facility before the state completed her federally mandated screening. None Since late 2012, the department has met with Florida officials on numerous occasions in an attempt to resolve the violations identified in the findings letter cooperatively. While the state has altered some policies that have contributed to the unnecessary institutionalization of children, ongoing violations remain. Nearly two hundred children remain in nursing facilities. Deficient transition planning processes, lengthy waiting lists for community-based services and a lack of sufficient community-based alternatives persist. The department has therefore determined that judicial action is necessary to ensure that the civil rights of Floridas children are protected. None 