  The Unified Government of Wyandotte Co. and Kansas City, Kan., has agreed to a settlement to address unauthorized overflows of untreated raw sewage and to reduce pollution levels in urban stormwater, the Department of Justice and Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced today.  The settlement, lodged today in federal court in Kansas City, Kan., requires the Unified Government to implement improved operation and maintenance programs for its sewer system, perform initial work to address sewer overflows, and implement an improved Storm Water Management Plan. The Unified Government will also develop a proposed overflow control plan for the sewer system by September 2016 for approval by EPA. Unified Governments implementation of that plan, once approved, will be embodied in a subsequent judicial settlement.  Todays agreement will put the Unified Government of Wyandotte County on a clear path toward compliance with the Clean Water Act, said Ignacia S. Moreno, Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division. The settlement will address deficiencies and require improvements to Wyandotte Countys sewer and stormwater systems that will reduce risks and bring cleaner water for the benefit of the county residents health and the environment.  EPA is working with cities to find effective, affordable solutions to control raw sewage and stormwater overflows, said Cynthia Giles, assistant administrator for EPAs Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance. Todays settlement allows the Unified Government to tackle their most important water quality problems first, while preparing a long-term approach to keep local waterways protected in the future.  This settlement is good news for Kansas, said Barry Grissom, U.S. Attorney for the District of Kansas. By protecting our rivers, we are ensuring clean drinking water supplies, protecting public health, improving recreation and leaving a legacy of healthy rivers for future Kansans.  We are pleased that this settlement will result in the vigorous efforts by the Unified Government to improve its wastewater and stormwater programs, said Karl Brooks, EPA regional administrator. These programs will provide significant health and environmental benefits to the citizens of Kansas City, Kansas and Wyandotte County. Of special note are the immediate actions by the Unified Government to address sewer overflows in the northeast area of the city where there is a high proportion of low income and minority residents.  The Unified Governments sewer system collects and receives domestic, commercial and industrial wastewater from approximately 110,000 area residents. The system includes five wastewater treatment plants and more than 800 miles of sewer lines. The system is served by about one-third combined sewers, which carry both stormwater and wastewater, and the remainder by separated sewers.  Since 2004, the Unified Government has reported more than 450 illegal sewer overflows from its sewer system. These overflows resulted in the discharge of raw sewage into the Missouri River, the Kansas River and their tributaries. Untreated sewage from overflows can cause serious water quality problems and health issues from pollutants including harmful bacteria, oxygen-depleting substances, suspended solids, toxic metals and chemicals, and nutrients. The overflows are in violation of the federal Clean Water Act (CWA) and the terms of the citys National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permits for operation of its sewer system.  Under the agreement, the Unified Government is required to perform initial work primarily in the combined sewer portion of the system, located in the oldest developed area of the city, which is expected to provide relief to residences and other properties in the urban core that are often impacted by overflows.NoneNone  More information about EPAs national enforcement initiative: www.epa.gov/compliance/data/planning/initiatives/2011sewagestormwater.html  More information about integrated municipal stormwater and wastewater plans: http://cfpub.epa.gov/npdes/integratedplans.cfm