None  WASHINGTON A federal district judge in Shreveport, La., has found that Reggie Collier, a Louisiana landowner, violated the Fair Housing Act by interfering with the sale of a home based on the perceived race of the buyer, the Justice Department announced today. The court ordered Collier to pay a $25,000 civil penalty to the United States, and to pay more than $25,000 to compensate the victims of the discrimination.  The lawsuit, which resulted from an investigation conducted by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), alleged that Collier engaged in a pattern or practice of discrimination by excluding African-Americans from the Camp Joy Marina, located outside Shreveport, and by interfering with the sale of a home based on the perceived race of the buyer.  "Our nations civil rights laws have long guaranteed that all individuals, regardless of race, can access housing free from discrimination," said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights. "The Justice Department will not tolerate housing discrimination in this country."  After a two day trial, the court found that Collier implemented "a scheme or device to exclude blacks" from Camp Joy Marina and engaged in a pattern or practice of discrimination. The court credited the testimony of one government witness who operated the marina restaurant and bar, and who testified that Collier threatened to cancel his lease if he allowed African-Americans on the property. The court also found that when a couple living at the marina tried to sell their home, Collier caused the sale to fall apart and then repossessed the house because he was afraid they would sell it to an African-American.  "Everyone has the right to be treated fairly and equitably when purchasing a home. It is one of the most significant and largest purchases one makes," said U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Louisiana Stephanie A. Finley. "Racial discrimination is wrong, and it is illegal. The U.S. Attorneys Office will continue to vigorously address unlawful discrimination and violations of the Fair Housing Act."  "HUD and the Department of Justice work together to end housing discrimination in America," said John Trasvia, HUD Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity. "The courts decision in this case demonstrates that illegal housing discrimination is not welcome in any neighborhood and that the Fair Housing Act will be enforced vigorously." None  The compensatory damages are divided among the couple whose home Reggie Collier repossessed, and the two real-estate agents who lost commissions when the sale fell apart.NoneNone