None This years award recipients have made significant contributions across, and far beyond, the Department of Justice and helped to protect the rights, safety and best interests of the citizens we are privileged to serve, Attorney General Holder said. I am grateful for the dedication and passion that these extraordinary public servants bring to their work, and I am honored to count them as colleagues. None None None None NoneNoneNone None NoneNoneNone None NoneNone None The second Distinguished Service Award is presented to the team whose service and dedication to the Prison Rape Elimination Act (PREA) Working Group led to the completion of one of the largest and most complex rulemakings in the Department of Justices recent history. The work on this project, which has resulted in a comprehensive set of national standards aimed at eliminating sexual abuse in our nations confinement facilities, was of an outstanding and distinctive character. These individuals conducted an in-depth review and revision of standards recommended by the National Prison Rape Elimination Commission, and engaged with a wide range of relevant stakeholders, culminating in publication of a detailed final rule with extensive justifications of the standards and responses to public comments.  None The third Distinguished Service Award is presented to the individuals involved in procuring a $25 billion mortgage servicing settlement between the United States, 49 state attorneys general and the five largest mortgage servicers, representing the largest federal-state settlement in history. The settlement includes comprehensive new mortgage loan servicing standards, $5 billion to state and federal treasuries and borrowers who lost their homes to foreclosure, $20 billion in consumer relief and a $1 billion resolution of False Claims Act recoveries by the Eastern District of New York. None The fourth Distinguished Service Award is presented to the team whose outstanding contribution led to the successful investigation and dismantling of the Coreflood Botnet, also known as Operation Adeona. The Coreflood Botnet was a collection of approximately 2.3 million compromised computers illegally controlled by subjects in Russia, which were then used to steal personal information and commit financial fraud on a massive scale. Operation Adeona was the first proactive seizure of a botnet by law enforcement authorities in the United States, utilizing an innovative legal framework and sophisticated technical means to cause the subjects to release control of the compromised computers. None The fifth Distinguished Service Award is presented to members of the investigation and prosecution team responsible for its outstanding work in combating the violent transnational criminal organization La Mara Salvatrucha (MS-13) that terrorized communities throughout the greater San Francisco metropolitan area. This complex racketeering investigation and prosecution spanned more than six years, and targeted an organization responsible for at least six murders and countless shootings, assaults and other acts of violence, as well as narcotics trafficking. The teams relentless pursuit of this gang led to the conviction of more than 37 gang members on racketeering charges, with the most violent leaders of the gang receiving life sentences.None The sixth Distinguished Service Award is presented to the Tribal Trust Negotiation Team for its sustained and excellent work in negotiating settlements with more than 40 Tribesin complex and long-running Tribal Trust cases. These settlements have obviated the need to prolong highly contentious litigation with these tribes, and will save the United States the significant resources that litigating these cases would have cost. On an expedited schedule, the team prepared offers for 75 separate tribes and reached favorable resolutions with more than 40 of the tribes. Collectively, the settlements in these cases will provide more than $1 billion to tribes in exchange for the dismissal of all trust mismanagement lawsuits.None The seventh Distinguished Service Award is presented to the team for investigating and prosecuting Raj Rajaratnam and his criminal associates in a case that has made history as the largest insider trading case ever. Rajaratnam, the billionaire founder of the Galleon Group, was, for more than 10 years, the leader of an extensive network of insiders at public companies who repeatedly took advantage of ordinary investors and corrupted United States capital markets by trading based on material nonpublic information, reaping millions of dollars in illegal profits. This case represents the first use of wiretaps to prosecute insider trading schemes.NoneNoneThe eighth Distinguished Service Award is presented to the team whose extraordinary service led to the prosecution of Ahmed Warsame, al Shabaab commander and emissary to Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP). Warsame was captured with the authorization of the president and by the U.S. military off the coast of Yemen. The FBI then later brought him to the Southern District of New York for prosecution on various terrorism-related offenses. The unparalleled coordination, dedication and teamwork among the department, the Department of Defense (DOD) and the intelligence community resulted in bringing an international terrorist to justice in a federal court. None The ninth Distinguished Service Award is presented to the team whose outstanding work led to the successful prosecution of former Illinois Governor Rod Blagojevich and others for fraud, extortion and bribery relating to corrupt acts that occurred from 2002 through 2008. The teams dedicated and exhaustive pursuit of evidence, as well as its compelling presentation of that evidence over multiple lengthy trials, resulted in the conviction of Blagojevich, two chiefs of staff and four others for crimes related to the selling of a U.S. Senate seat, the extortion of a childrens hospital, the attempted bribery of a campaign contributor, as well as other criminal acts. None None None None None None None None None None None None None NoneNoneNone None NoneNone None None None NoneNone None NoneNoneNone None None None None NoneNoneNone None None None None None NoneNoneNoneNoneNone None None None NoneNoneNone None None None None None None NoneNoneNoneNone None None None None None None