A New Jersey businessman was sentenced to a year and one day in prison for Conspiracy to Commit Money Laundering in connection with his role in arranging corrupt payments to influence the awarding of contracts with the Russian state-owned nuclear energy corporation. The sentence was announced by Acting Assistant Attorney General Kenneth A. Blanco, Acting U.S. Attorney Stephen M. Schenning for the District of Maryland; Special Agent in Charge Angela Sigler of the U.S. Department of Energy Office of Inspector General (DOE-OIG); and Assistant Director in Charge Andrew W. Vale of the FBIs Washington Field Office. Boris Rubizhevsky, 67, of Closter, New Jersey was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Theodore D. Chuang to 12 months and one day in prison, followed by three years of supervised release. The defendant was also ordered to forfeit $26,500. Rubizhevsky pleaded guilty on June 15, 2015, to conspiracy to commit money laundering. According to court documents, Rubizhevsky acted as an intermediary in connection with corrupt payments to co-conspirator Vadim Mikerin, the former director of the Pan American Department of JSC Techsnabexport (TENEX), a subsidiary of Russias State Atomic Energy Corporation and the sole supplier and exporter of Russian Federation uranium and uranium enrichment services to nuclear power companies worldwide.  According to court documents, between October 2011 and February 2013, Rubizhevsky and Mikerin agreed to conceal corrupt payments being made from the United States to overseas bank accounts for the benefit of Mikerin, including a payment to a foreign bank account located in Latvia. Rubizhevsky admitted that the conspirators used sham consulting agreements to disguise the corrupt payments.  None The DOE-OIG and FBI investigated the case. Assistant Chiefs Christopher Cestaro and Ephraim Wernick and Trial Attorney Derek Ettinger of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorneys David I. Salem and Michael T. Packard of the District of Maryland prosecuted the case.