A Middleburg, Florida man who used an infant and a toddler to produce child pornography was sentenced to 60 years in federal prison yesterday, to be followed by a lifetime of supervised release.Acting Assistant Attorney General John P. Cronan of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Maria Chapa Lopez of the Middle District of Florida and Special Agent in Charge James C. Spero of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations (ICE-HSI) Tampa, made the announcement.Andrew Leslie, 23, a former software engineer, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Brian J. Davis on Oct.21, 2017.Andrew Leslie committed unspeakable crimes against the most vulnerable of victims, children so young that they literally cannot speak for themselves said Acting Assistant Attorney General John P. Cronan. Our prosecutors and law enforcement partners are committed to identifying and prosecuting offenders like Andrew Leslie and securing sentences like todays, which ensures that he will never harm another child.Yesterdays sentence demonstrates the severity of the crimes committed in this case, said U.S. Attorney Lopez. We intend to continue our pursuit in prosecuting such egregious crimes as this, in hopes that justice will be served for the victims.This predator has committed atrocities that are beyond comprehension, said Special Agent in Charge Spero. We hope yesterdays sentencing can bring some solace to the victims in their recovery process.According to admissions made in conjunction with the guilty plea, during the execution of a federal search warrant at Leslies Middleburg residence, agents located a digital camera next to Leslies bed. Inside of the camera was a memory card that contained a series of images depicting Leslie sexually abusing two children, one of which was an infant child and the second who was approximately two years old. The two-year-old child, whom Leslie admitted was in bed with Leslie at the time law enforcement agents entered the residence, was found in the residence and rescued. Forensic analysis of other digital devices seized from the residence revealed that Leslie had produced, received, distributed, and possessed numerous images and videos depicting child pornography.This case was investigated by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations and the Clay County Sheriffs Office.Trial Attorney Lauren E. Britsch of the Criminal Divisions Child Exploitation and Obscenity Section (CEOS) and Assistant U.S. Attorney D. Rodney Brown of the Middle District of Florida prosecuted the case.None