Guidance Helps Protect Workers Against Anticompetitive Conduct and Puts Firms on Notice that DOJ Will Proceed Criminally Against Naked Wage Fixing and No-Poaching AgreementsToday, the Justice Departments Antitrust Division and the Federal Trade Commission issued guidance for human resource (HR) professionals and others who are involved in hiring and compensation decisions. HR professionals are often in the best position to ensure their companies hiring practices comply with the law and this guidance will help educate and inform them about how the antitrust laws apply to the employment arena. Workers are entitled to the benefits of a competitive market for their services. They are harmed if companies that would ordinarily compete against each other to recruit and retain employees agree to fix wages or other terms of employment or enter into so-called "no-poaching" agreements by agreeing not to recruit each others employees. Going forward, the Justice Department intends to criminally investigate naked no-poaching or wage-fixing agreements that are unrelated or unnecessary to a larger legitimate collaboration between the employers. These types of agreements eliminate competition in the same irredeemable way as agreements to fix the prices of goods or allocate customers, which have traditionally been criminally investigated and prosecuted as hardcore cartel conduct. Agreements that do not constitute criminal violations may still lead to civil liability under statutes enforced by both agencies."Antitrust violations in the employment arena can greatly harm employees and impact earnings over the course of their entire careers," said Acting Assistant Attorney General Renata Hesse of the Justice Departments Antitrust Division. "HR professionals need to understand that these violations can lead to severe consequences, including criminal prosecution. The newly released joint guidance provides HR professionals with information to prevent violations and report potentially unlawful activity, furthering the Justice Departments commitment to protect workers from harmful conduct that stifles competition.""Competition is essential to well-functioning markets, and job markets are no exception," said Chairwoman Edith Ramirez of the Federal Trade Commission. "These guidelines will help ensure that employers understand how to comply with the antitrust laws and will help employees reap the benefits of a competitive market for their services."The guidance also discusses how the antitrust laws apply to firms decisions to share sensitive information, such as compensation information, with competing employers, either directly or through third party entities. Information sharing may violate antitrust law unless the information exchange is carefully designed to prevent harm to competition. NoneNone