U.S. District Court Also Issues Permanent Injunction Against Company and Two PrincipalsRoos Foods Inc., a Delaware company, pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor violation of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (FDCA), in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware, the Department of Justice announced today. U.S. Magistrate Judge Sherry R. Fallon accepted the companys guilty plea and sentenced Roos Foods to pay a fine of $100,000.In addition to the companys guilty plea, Roos, and its principals, Ana A. Roos and Virginia Mejia, agreed to a consent decree of permanent injunction. The consent decree of permanent injunction was entered by U.S. District Court Judge Richard G. Andrews on Jan. 26.NoneThe Department of Justice will use all of the tools available to us  criminal and civil  to ensure that the food we buy is free from dangerous bacteria and is safe to eat, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer, head of the Justice Departments Civil Division. We will continue to work aggressively with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to combat and deter conduct leading to the distribution of adulterated food to consumers.The criminal and civil cases demonstrate the need for the government to protect consumers from adulterated food, said U.S. Attorney Charles M. Oberly III for the District of Delaware. Manufacturers of our nations food supplies, such as Roos, must comply with the law and when violators are found they should expect to be prosecuted and, if necessary, put out of business.NoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneConsumers rely on the FDA to help ensure that their food is safe and wholesome, said Deputy Commissioner Howard Sklamberg of FDAs Global Regulatory Operations and Policy. When companies put themselves above the law and produce food that puts the public's health at risk, we will see that they are brought to justice.The civil complaint alleged that Roos Foods and the two individual defendants violated the FDCA by, among other things, introducing or delivering for introduction into interstate commerce articles of food that were adulterated in that the food was prepared, packed or held under insanitary conditions whereby it may have become contaminated with filth or rendered injurious to health.As part of the consent decree, defendants represented to the court that, at the time of entry of the consent decree, they were not engaged in receiving, preparing, processing, packing, holding, or distributing any type of food at or from any location. The permanent injunction requires the defendants to notify the FDA if they intend to resume such operations. In addition, the defendants must take a series of safety related steps under the permanent injunction before they can resume such operations.Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Mizer and U.S. Attorney Oberly commended the investigative efforts of the FDAs Office of Criminal Investigation. The criminal case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Heide L. Herrmann of the Justice Departments Consumer Protection Branch and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Jennifer Welsh and Edmond Falgowski of the District of Delaware. They were assisted by Associate Chief Counsel Laura Pawloski of the Food and Drug Division, Office of General Counsel, Department of Health and Human Services.The government is represented in the civil case by Trial Attorney Megan Englehart of the Justice Departments Consumer Protection Branch and Assistant U.S. Attorney Patricia Hannigan of the District of Delaware, with the assistance of Associate Chief Counsel Shannon M. Singleton of the Food and Drug Division, Office of General Counsel, Department of Health and Human Services.None