  WASHINGTON - A Bloods gang member was sentenced today in Nashville, Tenn., to eight years in prison for participating in racketeering activity related to his membership in the Bloods criminal enterprise, announced Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney Jerry E. Martin for the Middle District of Tennessee.   Antonio Washington, 22, aka T.O., of Nashville, also was ordered by U.S. District Judge Aleta Trauger to serve five years of supervised release following his prison term.   Washington pleaded guilty on June 21, 2011, to the racketeering conspiracy.   According to court documents, Washington and other Bloods gang members and associates agreed to commit multiple acts of robbery, narcotics trafficking and bribery on behalf of the Bloods gang.   Washington and numerous Bloods gang members met on a regular basis at various locations throughout the Middle District of Tennessee, including Shelby Park, Cedar Hill Park and the Galaxy Star Drug Awareness and Gang Prevention Center in Nashville, to report on gang-related business, collect dues, commit disciplinary actions against fellow gang members, discuss acts of violence against rival gang members, and initiate or jump in new members by beating them for a period of time, among other things.   Washington admitted that on March 28, 2010, during a Bloods gang meeting at Galaxy Star Drug Awareness and Gang Prevention Center, he and numerous other Bloods gang members voted to punish Bloods member Joedon Bradley.   Following the vote, the Bloods gang members exited the building and formed a large circle in the backyard behind a wooden fence, where several groups of Bloods gang members violently assaulted Bradley.      According to court documents, on April 14, 2010, Washington and other known Bloods gang members and associates agreed to rob an individual of approximately 30 pounds of marijuana.   Washington admitted that, armed with a pistol, he rode in a vehicle with several known Bloods gang members to commit the robbery.   However, when Washington and the other Bloods gang members arrived at the location, they were unable to commit the robbery because of the presence of law enforcement in the area.   The case was investigated by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; the Metropolitan Nashville Police Department; and the Gallatin, Tenn., Police Department.   The U.S. Marshals Service and the Davidson County, Tenn., District Attorneys Office also provided assistance.      The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Scarlett M. Singleton for the Middle District of Tennessee and Trial Attorney Cody L. Skipper of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section.