      WASHINGTON  A former vice president of an Illinois refuse disposal container repair company was sentenced today to serve 16 months in prison and to pay a $40,000 criminal fine for his role in a conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud in connection with bids on a contract with the city of Chicago, the Department of Justice announced.       Steven Fenzl, a California resident, was also sentenced by U.S. District Court Judge Ruben Castillo to pay $35,302 in restitution for his participation in a conspiracy to defraud the city of Chicago on a contract for the repair of refuse carts from as early as November 2004 to as late as September 2008. Fenzl, along with his business partner Douglas E. Ritter, was charged in an indictment filed on April 21, 2009, in U.S. District Court in Chicago. Fenzl was found guilty by a jury on Sept. 28, 2010, of one count of conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud, two counts of mail fraud and one count of wire fraud. Ritter, an Illinois resident, pleaded guilty to the conspiracy on June 3, 2010, and was sentenced on May 10, 2011, to serve 16 months in prison and to pay $35,303 in restitution.       According to the indictment, Fenzl, Ritter and their co-conspirator conspired to deceive city of Chicago officials about the number of legitimate, competitive bids submitted for the contract. Specifically, Fenzl and his co-conspirators fraudulently induced other companies to submit bids for the contract at prices determined by Fenzl and his co-conspirators and greater than the price for which Fenzls company had submitted a bid. The department said that included in these bids were fraudulent documents indicating that, if awarded the contract, the bidder would enter into subcontracts to purchase goods or services for a specified percentage of the contract from a minority-owned business and a women-owned business, as required by the city of Chicago. According to the indictment, Fenzl and his co-conspirators also fraudulently certified to the city on Fenzls companys bid that it had not entered an agreement with any other bidder relating to the price named in any other bid submitted to the city for the contract.       Todays sentencing resulted from an investigation of the refuse cart repair industry being conducted by the Antitrust Divisions Chicago Field Office and the city of Chicagos Office of Inspector General. None