A former Oklahoma City law enforcement officer and owner of Polygraph.com has been indicted on obstruction of justice and mail fraud charges for allegedly training customers to lie and conceal crimes during polygraph examinations.Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, Acting Assistant Commissioner Mark Morgan of U.S. Customs and Border Protections Office of Internal Affairs and Special Agent in Charge James E. Finch of the FBIs Oklahoma City Field Office made the announcement.Douglas Williams, 69, of Norman, Oklahoma, was charged in a five-count indictment in the Western District of Oklahoma with mail fraud and obstruction. According to allegations in the indictment, Williams, the owner and operator of Polygraph.com, marketed his training services to people appearing for polygraph examinations before federal law enforcement agencies, federal intelligence agencies, and state and local law enforcement agencies, as well as people required to take polygraph examinations under the terms of their parole or probation.The indictment further alleges that Williams trained an individual posing as a federal law enforcement officer to lie and conceal involvement in criminal activity from an internal agency investigation. Williams is also alleged to have trained a second individual posing as an applicant seeking federal employment to lie and conceal crimes in a pre-employment polygraph examination. Williams, who was paid for both training sessions, is alleged to have instructed the individuals to deny having received his polygraph training.The charges contained in an indictment are merely accusations, and a defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.The investigation is being investigated by U.S. Custom and Border Protections Office of Internal Affairs and the FBIs Oklahoma City Field Office. The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Mark Angehr and Brian K. Kidd of the Criminal Divisions Public Integrity Section.