A former Oklahoma City law enforcement officer and owner of Polygraph.com pleaded guilty today to obstruction of justice and mail fraud for training customers to lie and conceal crimes during polygraph examinations.Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, Acting Assistant Commissioner Anthony Triplett of U.S. Customs and Border Protections Office of Internal Affairs and Special Agent in Charge James E. Finch of the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) Oklahoma City Field Office made the announcement.Lying, deception and fraud cannot be allowed to influence the hiring of national security and law enforcement officials, particularly when it might affect the security of our borders, said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. Todays conviction sends a message that we pursue those who attempt to corrupt law enforcement wherever and however they may try to do so.Douglas Williams, 69, of Norman, Oklahoma, pleaded guilty to a five-count indictment charging him with mail fraud and obstruction. Williams was indicted on Nov. 14, 2014, in the Western District of Oklahoma.According to admissions made in connection with his plea, Williams, the owner and operator of Polygraph.com, marketed his training services to people appearing for polygraph examinations before federal, state and local law enforcement agencies and federal intelligence agencies, as well as people required to take polygraph examinations under the terms of their parole or probation.Williams further admitted that he trained an individual posing as a federal law enforcement officer to lie and conceal involvement in criminal activity from an internal agency investigation. Williams also admitted to having trained a second individual posing as an applicant seeking federal employment to lie and conceal crimes in a pre-employment polygraph examination. Williams, who was paid for both training sessions, admitted to having instructed the individuals to deny having received his polygraph training.The investigation is being investigated by U.S. Custom and Border Protections Office of Internal Affairs and the FBIs Oklahoma City Field Office. The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Heidi Boutros Gesch and Brian K. Kidd of the Criminal Divisions Public Integrity Section.