United Kingdom-based global financial services company HSBC Holdings plc (HSBC) entered into a deferred prosecution agreement (DPA) and agreed to pay a $63.1 million criminal penalty and $38.4 million in disgorgement and restitution to resolve charges that it engaged in a scheme to defraud two bank clients through a multi-million dollar scheme commonly referred to as front-running. The DPA, which was filed in connection with a two-count criminal information charging wire fraud in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York, is pending review by the Court.  Acting Assistant Attorney General John P. Cronan of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, Inspector General Jay N. Lerner of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and Special Agent in Charge Timothy R. Slater of the FBI Washington Field Offices Criminal Division made the announcement.  HSBCs admissions in connection with this resolution confirm that the company misused confidential client information for its own profit on more than one occasion, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Cronan. This sort of misconduct not only harmed their clients, costing the victims money, but it also ran a serious risk of undermining the publics confidence in our financial markets. The Department of Justice takes these types of cases seriously and will hold to account financial institutions and individuals that circumvent the rule of law in favor of illicit profits.  Todays agreement represents that the financial services company, HSBC Holdings, is responsible for the conduct of its employees, and that it must not be permitted to benefit from the fraud committed by bank personnel, said Inspector General Lerner. Such financial crimes violated the trusted relationships between HSBC and its clients, and therefore, we are pleased to join our law enforcement partners in combating this misconduct. "HSBC defrauded two bank clients in a front-running scheme that enabled them to acquire millions of dollars to benefit their institution and harm their clients," said Special Agent in Charge Slater. "The FBI remains dedicated to ensuring the integrity is upheld in the financial services industry, and prosecuting those who engage in illegal business practices." According to HSBCs admissions, on two separate occasions in 2010 and 2011, traders on its foreign exchange desk misused confidential information provided to them by clients that hired HSBC to execute multi-billion dollar foreign exchange transactions involving the British Pound Sterling. After executing confidentiality agreements with its clients that required the bank to keep the details of their planned transactions confidential, traders on HSBCs foreign exchange desk transacted in the Pound Sterling for the traders and HSBCs own benefit in their HSBC proprietary accounts. HSBC traders then caused the large transactions to be executed in a manner designed to drive the price of the Pound Sterling in a direction that benefited HSBC, and harmed their clients. HSBC also made misrepresentations to one of the clients, Cairn Energy, to conceal the self-serving nature of its actions. In total, HSBC admitted to making profits of approximately $38.4 million on the first transaction in March 2010, and approximately $8 million on the Cairn Energy transaction in December 2011.  NoneNoneThe Department reached this resolution based on a number of factors, including the approximately $46.4 million that HSBC gained from the offense; the banks remedial measures to date, including dedicating significant resources to improving its systems and controls and terminating the employment of employees involved in wrongdoing; and the banks commitment to continuing to enhance its compliance program and internal controls. HSBC did not receive credit for voluntarily disclosing the misconduct. HSBC received substantial cooperation credit because, although as detailed in the DPA, the banks initial cooperation with the governments investigation was deficient in certain respects, after being notified of the Departments concerns, HSBC changed course and its cooperation improved substantially.  None The investigation was conducted by the FDICs Office of Inspector General and the FBIs Washington Field Office. Assistant Chiefs Carol Sipperly and Brian Young and Trial Attorney Blake Goebel of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section are prosecuting the case. The U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of New York and the Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs provided significant support.