NoneNoneRaishani was arrested on June 21, at John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) in Queens, N.Y., as he allegedly attempted to travel overseas to join ISIS. The Superseding Indictment adds charges against Raishani for allegedly facilitating another individuals travel to join ISIS abroad in the fall of 2015. According to the charges, Raishani conspired to provide material support to ISIS and helped another individual travel to join the designated terrorist organization before attempting to do the same, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Boente. The National Security Divisions highest priority is countering terrorist threats, and we will continue to work to stem the flow of foreign fighters abroad and bring to justice those who conspire to provide material support to designated foreign terrorist organizations. I would like to thank all of the agents, analysts and prosecutors who are responsible for this case. As alleged, Adam Raishani provided material support to ISIS by helping a co-conspirator travel abroad to fight for that terrorist organization, said Acting U.S. Attorney Kim. A year later, Raishani himself attempted to travel overseas to join ISIS. Fortunately through the outstanding work of law enforcement, Raishanis travel plans were detected and thwarted before he was able to inflict any further harm.NoneOver the past several weeks, there have been a number of defendants charged with helping others travel to Syria or prepare to engage in their own Jihad, said Commissioner ONeill. This is the latest  troubling  example. My thanks for the detectives and agents whose investigation on the original Joint Terrorism Task Force here in Manhattan led to todays arrests.As alleged in the Superseding Indictment filed today and the criminal Complaint initially filed against Raishani:Beginning in at least the fall of 2015, Raishani conspired with another ISIS supporter (CC-1) to provide material support to ISIS by means of CC-1 traveling abroad to join and fight for ISIS. On or about Oct. 30, 2015, CC-1 departed from JFK Airport for Istanbul, Turkey. Raishani arranged for the transportation of CC-1 from the Bronx, New York, to JFK Airport, and Raishani accompanied CC-1 from the Bronx to JFK Airport.Raishani continued communicating with CC-1 following CC-1s departure. For example, on or about Jan. 2, 2016, Raishani sent an email to CC-1 stating: Glad tidings brother. Its [sic] been some time since your voyage. I pray to Allah The ALL MIGHTY to grant you success. Until next time." On or about April 1, 2016, Raishani sent another email to CC-1 stating: I hope Allah has bestowed you what you were seeking. . . . May Allah grant you sincere and clean intentions and make you among the righteous in Janatal Firdaus [a reference to Islamic paradise]. . . . Please return this email and respond to what we agreed upon before your departure. Until next time. On or about May 3, 2016, CC-1 responded to Raishani, informing Raishani that CC-1 was fine and well, that CC-1 wished you [Raishani] were here with me, and that here we are living with izza [honor].Also in May 2016, CC-1 posted content on a particular social media application (Application-1) indicating that CC-1 was living in the Islamic State and fighting on its behalf. For example, CC-1 sent messages to another user of Application-1 stating: Im living in the Islamic state safely and secure by the permission of Allah, [h]ere we are fighting the kuffars [non-believers], and I left the land of kuffars now Im living in the khilafah [the caliphate]. CC-1 also posted a photograph on Application-1 that shows CC-1 carrying an assault rifle and a flag representative of ISIS. None***NoneMr. Boente and Mr. Kim praised the outstanding efforts of the FBIs New York Joint Terrorism Task Force, which principally consists of agents from the FBI and detectives from the NYPD, and the NYPDs Intelligence Division. Mr. Kim also thanked the Counterterrorism Section of the Department of Justices National Security Division, as well as the New York Office of U.S. Customs and Border Protection.None