None  Jones, along with his ex-wife, Chikenna D. Jones, at various times operated McKenzie Healthcare Solutions Inc., and owned and operated Healthcare 1 LLC, Lifeline Healthcare Services Inc., Medical 1 Patient Services Inc. and Rose Medical Equipment Inc., Louisiana-based companies that fraudulently billed medical equipment to the Medicare program from 2004 to 2010. Jones had also worked as a patient recruiter for Unique Health Solution Inc. For his involvement with Unique, Jones, along with co-defendants Nnanta Felix Ngari, Sofjan M. Lamid and Ernest Payne, was convicted of conspiracy to commit health care fraud and conspiracy to defraud the United States and to pay or receive health care kickbacks after a jury trial in August 2011. Henry Jones and Chikenna Jones were convicted of conspiracy to commit health care fraud and conspiracy to defraud the United States and to pay or receive health care kickbacks after a jury trial in November 2011 for their role in the operation of McKenzie Healthcare Solutions Inc., and Jones pleaded guilty to Medicare fraud charges against him relating to the remaining companies in advance of a trial scheduled for February 2012.  In operating the various DME companies, Jones fraudulently billed the Medicare program for medical equipment that either was not medically necessary or not provided. Jones hired patient recruiters to obtain Medicare beneficiary information and prescriptions for medical equipment such as leg braces, arm braces, power wheel chairs and wheel chair accessories. These prescriptions were then used to submit fraudulent claims to the Medicare program.None  Since its inception in March 2007, the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, now operating in nine cities across the country, has charged more than 1,330 defendants who have collectively billed the Medicare program for more than $4 billion. In addition, HHSs Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, working in conjunction with HHS-OIG, is taking steps to increase accountability and decrease the presence of fraudulent providers.None