The Justice Department reached a settlement today to resolve the departments claims that J.E.T. Holding Co. Inc. discriminated against U.S. citizens and certain work-authorized immigrants in violation of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA).J.E.T. is a company based in Saipan, Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI), that operates a restaurant, bowling alley and an amusement center.The departments investigation found evidence that between approximately January 2016 and June 2016, J.E.T. engaged in a pattern or practice of refusing to hire U.S. citizens and other work-authorized individuals, including lawful permanent residents, for several dishwasher positions.The department concluded that J.E.T. failed to consider qualified U.S. citizen applicants and others based on their citizenship or immigration status because of a preference for hiring non-immigrant foreign workers with CW-1 visas.The CW-1 visa grants temporary work authorization to its beneficiaries and is only available in the CNMI.CNMI employers may apply to the CNMI Department of Labor for permission to hire workers under the CW-1 visa program after advertising vacant positions and certifying that no qualified local workers are available for hire.Under the terms of the settlement, J.E.T. will pay a civil penalty of $12,000, establish a back pay fund of $40,000 to compensate qualified claimants for any lost wages through a claims process, train its workers on the anti-discrimination provision of the INA and be subject to department monitoring.NoneThe U.S. Attorneys Office in the CNMI coordinated with the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division in its investigative efforts, and will provide assistance during the back pay claims process.NoneNoneNoneApplicants or employees who believe they were subjected to: different documentary requirements based on their citizenship status, immigration status or national origin; or discrimination based on their citizenship status, immigration status or national origin in hiring, firing or recruitment or referral, should contact the worker hotline above for assistance.None