The United States today extradited Inocente Orlando Montano Morales, a former colonel in the Salvadoran army, to stand trial in Spain for charges related to the murder of five Spanish Jesuit priests in El Salvador in 1989. This is one of thefirst top-ranking Salvadoran commanders to face criminal prosecution. None Inocente Orlando Montano Morales, 74, formerly of Everett, Massachusetts, and 19 other former Salvadoran military officials were indicted in Spain for the 1989 murders of five Spanish Jesuit priests during the 10-year Salvadoran civil conflict. An arrest warrant for Montano was issued in March 2011 by a Spanish magistrate judge. None This extradition, and the investigation and prosecution that preceded it, marks the culmination of longstanding and significant collaboration among HSI Boston, ICEs Human Rights Violators and War Crimes Center, the U.S. Attorneys Offices in Boston and Raleigh, and DOJs Office of International Affairs, said ICE Deputy Director Homan. We are grateful for the support of our law enforcement partners, DOJ, and our Department of State colleagues to ensure that Montano will face justice in Spain for his crimes and will not find safe haven in the United States.NoneNone At the time, Montano was a colonel in the Salvadoran army, and he also served as Vice Minister of Defense and Public Safety. The complaint alleges that he shared oversight responsibility over a government radio station that, days before the massacre, issued threats urging the murder of the Jesuit priests. The day before the murders, Montano also allegedly participated in a series of meetings during which one of his fellow officers gave the order to kill the leader of the Jesuits and leave no witnesses. The following day, members of the Salvadoran army allegedly executed the six priests, their housekeeper, and the housekeepers daughter. None Montanos extradition follows his 21-month federal prison sentence in the United States for his 2013 conviction in the District of Massachusetts for immigration fraud and perjury in connection with false statements that he made to immigration authorities to remain in the United States. Montano served his prison sentence in North Carolina, which is where his extradition proceedings took place.  His criminal conviction stemmed from false statements Montano made to obtain Temporary Protective Status (TPS), a benefit available to foreign nationals, permitting them to remain in the United States if they are unable to safely return to their home country because of ongoing armed conflict, the temporary effects of an environmental disaster, or other extraordinary and temporary conditions. In 2002, Montano was present in the United States and, on several occasions thereafter, applied for and obtained TPS. On his applications, Montano falsified the date on which he entered the country because he knew that if he stated the actual date, he would have been ineligible for TPS. The allegations contained in the Spanish extradition request are merely accusations, and any finding of guilt or innocence will be made by Spanish courts. None