A Dakar, Senegal, man was sentenced to 60 months in prison today for his involvement in a counterfeit DVD and CD ring.Acting Assistant Attorney General Kenneth A. Blanco of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney John A. Horn of the Northern District of Georgia, Special Agent in Charge David J. LeValley of the FBIs Atlanta Field Office and Special Agent in Charge Nick S. Annan of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) in Atlanta made the announcement.Mamadou Aliou Simakha, 41, was also ordered to pay $70,894 in restitution, jointly and severally with his co-defendants, by U.S. District Judge William S. Duffey Jr. of the Northern District of Georgia.Simakha pleaded guilty on March 10, 2010, to one count of conspiracy to commit criminal copyright infringement, to traffic in counterfeit goods and to traffic in counterfeit labels.After entering his guilty plea, Simakha fled the country, and a warrant was issued for his arrest on April 6, 2010.On March 1, 2016, Simakha was arrested in Morocco and was extradited from Morocco into the custody of the U.S. Marshals Service (USMS) on Dec.15, 2016.Criminal enforcement of the copyright laws plays an essential role in preserving the rights of American authors, artists and creators, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Blanco.This group of defendants stole from thousands of victims by mass-producing counterfeit music CDs and DVD movies in a far-reaching pirating operation.As this case demonstrates, we will continue to investigate, prosecute and, if necessary, extradite those individuals who seek to profit illegally by stealing the works of others.Simakha admitted his part as a high volume seller in a conspiracy to produce and traffic millions of pirated music CDs and DVDs which was a leading supplier for the southeastern United States, said U.S. Attorney Horn.His decision to flee the country garnered him the statutory maximum sentence he deserves for his many years as a disc counterfeiter and international fugitive.The international extradition and resulting federal conviction and sentencing of Simakha clearly illustrates that the U.S. government will not tolerate the wholesale theft of intellectual property on this scale, said Special Agent in Charge LeValley.The FBI will continue to be a significant partner in the fight against such individuals and groups engaged in criminal copyright infringement and counterfeit trafficking operations.Intellectual property theft negatively impacts the U.S. economy, threatens consumer health and safety and funds black market criminal organizations involved in other illicit activities, said Special Agent in Charge Annan.HSI will continue to protect intellectual property rights, crack down on counterfeiting, and collaborate with industry and law-enforcement authorities to ensure we conduct effective and efficient intellectual property enforcement.At the plea hearing, Simakha admitted that two co-conspirators supplied him with blank CDs and DVDs and Simaka burned counterfeit copies of music and movies onto the CDs and DVDs along with placing counterfeit artwork onto the CDs and DVDs.Simakha also admitted that he was involved in a conspiracy to then sell copies of the pirated works to others.None