A Las Vegas man was sentenced today to 60 months in prison for his role in an investment fraud scheme that promoted fraudulent investment opportunities and caused more than $5 million in losses to investors.Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Daniel G. Bogden of the District of Nevada and Special Agent in Charge Laura A. Bucheit of the FBIs Las Vegas Field Office made the announcement.Joseph Micelli, 62, was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Kent J. Dawson of the District of Nevada, who also ordered Micelli to pay $5.65 million in restitution and to forfeit $505,220 in fraudulent proceeds.As part of his plea, Micelli admitted that he conspired with others in the United States and Switzerland to promote investments and loan instruments that he knew to be fraudulent. The conspirators told victims that, for an up-front payment, a Swiss company known as the Malom Group A.G. would provide access to lucrative investment opportunities and substantial cash loans. In connection with his plea, Micelli admitted that he held himself out to investors as an attorney, when in fact he had lost his license to practice law. In addition, as part of an effort to defraud an investor who held an equity stake in a corporation that had filed for bankruptcy, Micelli submitted a sworn affidavit to the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of New Hampshire, in which he made false statements about the Malom Groups ability to provide financing to the debtors.Five other defendants have been charged in the case, two of whom were convicted at trial in December, two of whom are at large in Switzerland and one of whom is awaiting extradition from Canada.The FBIs Las Vegas Field Office investigated this case. Assistant Chief Brian R. Young and Trial Attorneys Melissa Aoyagi and Anna G. Kaminska of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section are prosecuting this case with assistance from the Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Nevada. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commissions Enforcement Division, which referred the matter to the department and is conducting a parallel civil enforcement investigation, also provided valuable assistance.None