Rahatul Ashikim Khan, 24, of Round Rock, Texas, was sentenced to 10 years in prison followed by 10 years of supervised release for attempting to provide material support and resources to terrorists.Assistant Attorney General for National Security John P. Carlin, U.S. Attorney Richard L. Durbin Jr. of the Western District of Texas and Special Agent in Charge Christopher H. Combs of the FBIs San Antonio Division made the announcement.On July 2, 2014, Khan pleaded guilty to conspiracy to provide material support to terrorists. The conspiracy occurred between March 2011 and January 2012. During this time frame, Khan identified an individual in an Internet chatroom and began assessing that individual for overseas violent jihadist travel. That individual was actually an FBI confidential source. After Khan screened the confidential source, he made arrangements to insert him into an al-Shabaab pipeline controlled by Gufran Ahmed Kauser Mohammed and Mohamed Hussen Said. Mohammed and Said both pleaded guilty to material support offenses in the Southern District of Florida and have been sentenced to terms of 15 years imprisonment respectively.According to court records, Khan also led a group of individuals in the Austin, Texas, area who pledged loyalty to the now-deceased Taliban and terrorist leader, Mullah Omar. Michael Todd Wolfe, 24, was a part of Khans group. Wolfe was arrested by FBI agents on June 17, 2014 in Houston, as he was about to board a plane as a first step towards his goal of joining and fighting with the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). Wolfe was sentenced to 82 months in prison for attempting to provide material support to ISIL.Rahatul Khan conspired to provide material support to terrorists by screening and recruiting potential foreign fighters located in the United States to wage violent jihad in various locations overseas, including Somalia, said Assistant Attorney General Carlin. The National Security Divisions highest priority is counterterrorism and we will continue to pursue justice against those who seek to provide material support to designated foreign terrorist organizations.I would like to thank the men and women serving on the Central Texas Joint Terrorism Task Force, who conducted an exceptional investigation in this case, and continue to work tirelessly, 365 days a year, to keep our community safe, said Special Agent in Charge Combs.This case resulted from a Central Texas Joint Terrorism Task Force investigation. The case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Gregg N. Sofer and Michael Galdo of the Western District of Texas and Trial Attorneys Josh Parecki and Michael Dittoe of the National Security Divisions Counterterrorism Section.