Assistant Attorney General John C. Cruden for the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division (ENRD) announced the appointment of key positions within his leadership staff.Varu Chilakamarri  Chief of StaffAs Chief of Staff, Chilakamarri will advise Assistant Attorney General Cruden on strategic goals and initiatives, serve as a liaison to senior leadership offices and work on special projects, including helping to coordinate the development of the divisions new animal welfare program.Varu is an outstanding lawyer, and a dedicated and accomplished public servant who has already proven herself in a variety of challenging positions with this Justice Department, said Assistant Attorney General Cruden. We are lucky to have her now with the Environment Division and I look forward to drawing on her wise counsel, impeccable judgment and administrative skill as we carry out our mission.NoneNoneAssistant Attorney General Cruden named Patricia McKenna to the newly created position of General Counsel and Attorney Educational Coordinator. In this role, Ms. McKenna has the dual responsibility of formulating and coordinating legal policies, plans and objectives on matters related to employee and labor relations, contract and procurementlaw, appropriations law and other programmatic, operational, administrative and general legal issues as well as serving asthe principal division official responsible for managing, overseeing and administering ENRDsattorney training program. This new position places renewed emphasis on the importance of attorney training in the division.Patricias depth of experience makes her an ideal candidate to strengthen the human capital of the division and lead efforts to continually train and equip ENRD attorneys so they can grow professionally, said Assistant Attorney General Cruden. With her valuable leadership and talent, I believe we can hone the skills that in turn will strengthen our representation of the United States in federal court.Ms. McKenna has been an attorney with the Environmental Enforcement Section (EES) of the Environment and Natural Resources Division for 16 years, the last nine as a Senior Attorney supervising EES matters in the Northeast and the Caribbean. She has broad experience representing the United States in all of the major pollution control statutes and has worked extensively on environmental issues in the Caribbean, most notably the Puerto Rico Aqueduct and Sewage Authority and Virgin Island Water and Power Authority cases. In addition, during her time at EES she has been actively involved in hiring and training for the division. Ms. McKenna has also received multiple awards within the department, including the Attorney Generals John Marshall Award in 2002 and the Drenaye Houston Mentor Award in 2013, as well as many awards from the Environmental Protection Agency for her outstanding work. Ms. McKenna began her career as a law clerk for Magistrate Judge A. Simon Chrein in the Eastern District of New York and spent three years as a general litigation associate at OMelveny & Myers, LLP in New York City. She graduated Order of the Coif from the College of William & Mary, Marshall Wythe School of Law and graduated magna cum laude from Siena College.