None  According to the plea agreement, Polembros will pay a $2.7 million criminal fine and a separate $100,000 community service payment to the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center, a subunit of Smithsonian Institute. The money will be used to research and mitigate the effects of marine invasive species suspected to be transported in ballast waters of ocean-going vessels. Invasive species can threaten native species and damage the ecosystems of the United States.  As part of the plea agreement, Polembros will also serve three years probation. As a condition of the probation, all ships owned or managed by Polembros (currently 20 vessels) will be barred from entering U.S. ports and territorial waters for three years.  Todays guilty plea carries with it a requirement, pending court review, that will prevent the company from participating in economic activity that takes place in territorial ports and waterways of the United States, said John C. Cruden, Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division. The industry should take heed that the Justice Department and our investigative counterparts will continue to prosecute and seek penalties for those who violate our nations environmental laws.  This case is historic in that it is the first prosecution under the Nonindigenous Aquatic Nuisance Prevention and Control Act. As a component of the Coast Guards maritime stewardship mission we are committed to the prevention and abatement of environmental crimes including those which may fall under the Nonindigenous Aquatic Nuisance Prevention and Control Act, said Rear Admiral Mary E. Landry, Commander of the Eighth Coast Guard District.NoneNone  With regard to the oil record book violation, bilge waste accumulates in deep spaces and is also held in bilge tanks. Under the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, bilge wastes may be discharged overboard into the ocean only if they contain less than 15 parts per million of oil. The principal technology utilized to lower the petroleum content of oil-contaminated water is a centrifugal separation machine, also known as an oil water separator. At some point, the ships oil water separator ceased functioning properly. During the voyage from Korea to Panama, the chief engineer contacted Polembros land-based management regarding the problems with the oil water separator.  During the ships operation, bilge waste accumulated and needed to be disposed of to keep the system from overflowing. Because the oil water separator was not functioning properly, the chief engineer directed the engineering crew to bypass the oil water separator and discharge bilge waste directly overboard. The primary overboard outlet for the oily mixtures was through the overboard sewage discharge valve. None of these discharges were recorded, as required, in the vessels oil record book, even though the chief engineer was responsible for maintaining its accuracy with regard to machinery space operations.None  Polembros is set to be sentenced on Dec. 9, 2009.None  The case was investigated by the U.S. Coast Guard Investigative Service with assistance from inspectors from Sector New Orleans as well as legal assistance from U.S. Coast Guard in New Orleans and at Headquarters in Washington, D.C. The case is being prosecuted by Christopher L. Hale of the Justice Departments Environmental Crimes Section along with Dorothy Taylor of the U.S. Attorneys Office in New Orleans.