  SunCoke Energy Inc. and two of its subsidiaries have agreed to pay $1.995 million to resolve alleged Clean Air Act violations of emission limits at the Gateway Energy and Coke plant in Granite City, Illinois, and the Haverhill Coke plant in Franklin Furnace, Ohio, announced the Justice Department and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.None  The substantial upgrades required by todays settlement will reduce air pollution that can harm public health and the environment, said Cynthia Giles, Assistant Administrator for EPAs Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance. EPA is committed to reducing toxic air pollution from sources that have an impact on the health of communities.  This settlement provides a long-term solution to protect air quality and control emissions, said Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine. We will continue to work with other agencies to protect Ohio families from environmental harm.  The facility upgrades and stricter emission limits mandated in this settlement will dramatically reduce harmful pollution levels and improve overall air quality in the communities surrounding these facilities, said Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan.None  The primary violations alleged relate to excessive bypass venting of hot coking gases directly to the atmosphere, resulting in excess SO2 and particulate matter emissions from the facilities waste heat and main stacks, in violation of applicable permit limits. Coke oven emissions are a known human carcinogen. Chronic (long-term) exposure in humans can result in conjunctivitis, severe dermatitis and lesions of the respiratory system and digestive system. The additional equipment installed at the facilities will result in estimated emissions reductions of over 1200 tons per year of SO2, over 130 tons per year of particulate matter, 252 tons per year of hydrochloric and sulfuric acid gases and over 1800 pounds per year of lead.  Both facilities are located in areas that do not meet federal health-based standards for soot. The Illinois facility is located in an area that also does not meet the federal air pollution standard for lead.None