On Dec. 2, 2015, the Justice Department hosted a convening to address the effect and fairness of fees and fines. The department convened judges, academics and practitioners to develop a research and policy agenda that will inform jurisdictions in their efforts to reform court practices. On Dec. 3, the White House and the department co-sponsored an event called, A Cycle of Incarceration: Prison, Debt and Bail Practices, to bring public attention to the connection between poverty and the criminal justice system and highlight state reform efforts. The White House Council of Economic Advisers also released an issue brief exploring the economic inefficiency of fines, fees and bail and their disproportionate impact on the poor.THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS COMMITMENT TO FAIRNESS IN THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEMCriminal justice reform is a top priority for the administration and specifically for the Justice Department. The department has taken significant steps to prevent vulnerable communities from becoming justice-involved, and to promote initiatives that reduce the likelihood of recidivism.The departments efforts also include addressing problems that obstruct opportunity, such as poverty, since those who are economically disadvantaged are more easily caught up in the criminal justice system and face greater barriers to reentry. Among these efforts are numerous diversion and reentry programs, as well as the White House Legal Aid Interagency Roundtable, which works to improve federal anti-poverty programs by providing access to legal aid.The department is particularly concerned about criminal justice system practices that perpetuate and exacerbate poverty by imposing unnecessary and exorbitant fees and fines, unjust collection practices, unwarranted suspension of drivers' licenses and other legal obligations. Such penalties may appear small in isolation, but in the obligations can easily and rapidly add up.These and other practices are not only unwise and harmful, but also inconsistent with constitutional mandates. For example, people are routinely assessed fines that they cannot afford and then jailed for nonpayment without any inquiry into their ability to pay, as required by the Constitution.These harms are most frequently felt by the most vulnerable members of our communities, and often in cases involving minor offenses, such as traffic citations. Fees and fines have significant consequences. Individuals face repeated, unnecessary incarceration in already overcrowded jails, lose their jobs and their housing, face escalating debt and often become trapped in cycles of poverty that can be nearly impossible to escape.JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS REFORM EFFORTSNoneNoneNoneCOUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS ISSUE BRIEFNoneNoneNone