Nicholas Michael Teausant, 22, of Acampo, California, was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge John A. Mendez of the Eastern District of California to 12 years in prison for attempting to provide material support to Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), a designated foreign terrorist organization, announced Assistant Attorney General for National Security John P. Carlin and Acting U.S. Attorney Phillip A. Talbert of the Eastern District of California.According to court documents, on March 17, 2014, Teausant was arrested traveling to Canada, near the border, with the intent of continuing to travel to Syria to join ISIL. On March 26, 2014, Teausant was indicted on one count of attempting to provide material support or resources to a terrorist organization. He pleaded guilty to the single count in the indictment without a plea agreement. In addition to the prison term, Judge Mendez also sentenced Teausant to 25 years of supervised release.With this sentence, Nicholas Michael Teausant will be held accountable for attempting to travel overseas to join ISIL and to provide material support to the designated terrorist organization, said Assistant Attorney General Carlin. The National Security Divisions highest priority is countering terrorist threats, and we will continue to work to stem the flow of foreign fighters abroad and bring to justice those who attempt to provide material support to designated foreign terrorist organizations.Mr. Teausant was fixated on violence as documented by his social media posts, his pre-arrest statements, and the nature of the group he attempted to join, said Acting U.S. Attorney Talbert. His conduct was misguided and unacceptable. We appreciate the courts thoughtful consideration of this case and its recognition of the seriousness of the offense. With the assistance of our investigative partners, we will continue to vigorously prosecute those who seek to provide material support to terrorist organizations.This case was the result of an investigation by the FBI; the Modesto, California, Police Department; and the San Joaquin, California, Sheriffs Office, who are members of the Modesto/Stockton Joint Terrorism Task Force, with significant assistance from U.S. Customs and Border Protection. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Jean M. Hobler and Jason Hitt of the Eastern District of California and Trial Attorney Andrew Sigler of the National Security Divisions Counterterrorism Section.