None None For example, on one occasion, the defendant used a heated wire hanger to brand a P on a victims buttock to demonstrate his ownership of her. When he learned that another victim was considering leaving, he put the barrel of a gun in her mouth and threatened to blow her head off.  On another occasion, the defendant, believing that a victim had hidden money from him, responded by searching her genitals and then forcing her to engage in sexual intercourse with him. In another instance, the defendant required her to choose between two punishments: drowning or jumping out of a window. After the victim jumped out of the window and fell to the ground, the defendant kicked her several times in the head, threw the victim to the ground, and stepped on her head hard enough to break her teeth. NoneNoneCombatting sex traffickinga heinous crime that often times preys on the youngest and most vulnerable members of our societyis one of the highest priorities of the Justice Department, said Associate Attorney General Rachel Brand. We will continue to work tirelessly to vindicate the civil rights of victims of human trafficking. None This case is an example of the ruthlessness of human traffickers who are willing to do anything, including victimizing women and girls, to make money, said HSI Special Agent in Charge James M. Gibbons. Human trafficking is modern-day slavery and HSI will continue to collaborate with community partners to bring justice to those impacted by this terrible crime.NoneTwo of Carters co-defendants previously pleaded guilty. Defendant David Moore pleaded guilty on October 27, 2015, to conspiracy to commit sex trafficking and trafficking with respect to forced labor. Sentencing is scheduled for January 30, 2018. Defendant Najee Moore pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit sex trafficking and use of an interstate facility to promote a prostitution business enterprise on June 9, 2014, and was sentenced to 10 years in prison on December 22, 2016.  This prosecution is the result of the joint investigation by the Eastern District of Wisconsins Human Trafficking Task Force and cooperative efforts of the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations, the State of Wisconsin Department of Justice, the Milwaukee Police Department, the FBI, the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of Wisconsin and the Civil Rights Divisions Human Trafficking Prosecution Unit.NoneThe case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Karine Moreno-Taxman and Laura Kwaterski of the Eastern District of Wisconsin and Trial Attorney Vasantha Rao of the Civil Rights Divisions Human Trafficking Prosecution Unit. 