  WASHINGTON  Attorney General Eric Holder announced today that the Department of Justice is beginning the process of awarding $100 million in Recovery Act funds to victim assistance and compensation programs. The Attorney General made the announcement in his remarks at the National Crime Victims Rights Week Awards Ceremony where he recognized 10 individuals and programs for their service to crime victims.None  "We all owe a debt to these honorees and to the countless other advocates across the country who tirelessly work to protect victims rights," Attorney General Eric Holder said. "The Department of Justice is committed to fighting for victims rights, which is why Im so pleased weve been able to dedicate such a substantial amount of funds from the Recovery Act to assist such advocates in their invaluable work."  These annual awards are presented as a prelude to the nations observance of National Crime Victims Rights Week, April 26-May 2, 2009. This years theme"25 Years of Rebuilding Lives: Celebrating the Victims of Crime Act"highlights the important role this law has played in serving victims.  The Victims of Crime Act was passed in 1984 and one of the innovative aspects of this landmark legislation was the Crime Victims Fund. Fines and penalties from federal criminalsnot tax dollarsare paid into the fund to support victim assistance and compensation programs. Since 1984, more than $6.9 billion from the Crime Victims Fund has been distributed. Today, 4,200 local organizations provide counseling, courtroom advocacy, temporary housing and other services to crime victims. The Fund also has been used to aid victims of mass casualty violence, including the shootings at Virginia Tech and at the American Civic Association in Binghamton, N.Y.  The fund is administered by the Departments Office of Justice Programs (OJP) through its Office for Victims of Crime (OVC), which organized todays awards ceremony and the Candlelight Observance held yesterday in Washington, D.C. In addition to the Attorney General, others at the Candlelight Observance included: Lanny Breuer, Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division; Laurie O. Robinson, Acting Assistant Attorney General, OJP; Joye E. Frost, Acting Director, OVC; and Quincy A. Lucas, a victims advocate and founder of Witneys Lights Inc.  The recipients of todays awards were nominated by their colleagues in the victim service and criminal justice fields to recognize their courageous responses in the aftermath of a crime and their professional efforts to better serve the needs of victims with disabilities, to design and implement curricula and tools for victim service providers and to ensure that victims receive the services that they need.None  NoneNoneNone None   Team members include: Lt. Karla S. Beck, Deanna Dufrene, Sgt. Valerie Day, Deputy Dale Savoie, Deputy Walter Tenney, Deputy Delaune Boudreaux, Advocate Tamera Joseph, Deputy Rebecca Shaver, Deputy Amy Guillot, Deputy Pam Guedry and Reservist Bernard Lafaso.None None NoneNone NoneNoneNoneNoneNone  NoneNoneNone  NoneNone