The Justice Department announced today that it has obtained an additional $5.4 million for servicemembers whose vehicles were unlawfully repossessed by Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. in violation of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (SCRA). The bank, which does business under the name Wells Fargo Dealer Services, has agreed to pay this money to approximately 450 servicemembers under a 2016 settlement that resolved the departments SCRA lawsuit against the company. This additional amount brings the total compensation under the settlement to more than $10.1 million and the total number of servicemembers eligible for relief to more than 860.NoneSince entering into the settlement with the department in September 2016, Wells Fargo has identified additional violations affecting approximately 450 servicemembers that occurred during the period covered by the settlement. Wells Fargo has begun to provide over $5,400,000 in compensation to these additional servicemembers under the agreement. Together with the compensation previously announced by the department in September 2016, a total of more than 860 servicemembers and their co-borrowers are eligible to receive $10,183,950.Just a few days ago, we observed Veterans Day to honor those who have served our country so bravely, said Acting Assistant Attorney General John M. Gore. The Justice Department will continue to honor their service throughout the year by vigorously enforcing servicemembers rights under federal law. The men and women of our armed forces should be able to devote their full attention to their military duties, without having to worry about their cars being repossessed back home. We are pleased that our settlement agreement has ensured that hundreds of additional servicemembers will be compensated for the damages they suffered as a result of illegal auto repossessions.The SCRA provides important protections and is intended to prevent unnecessary financial hardship for the brave women and men who serve in our armed forces, said Acting United States Attorney Sandra R. Brown. Losing an automobile through an unlawful repossession while serving our country is a problem servicemembers should not have to confront. We are pleased that Wells Fargo is taking action to compensate these additional servicemembers as required under the settlement with the Justice Department. My Office is committed to protecting the rights of servicemembers on all fronts.The SCRA requires a court to review and approve any repossession if the servicemember took out the loan and made a payment before entering military service. The court may delay the repossession or require the lender to refund prior payments before repossessing. The court may also appoint an attorney to represent the servicemember, require the lender to post a bond with the court and issue any other orders it deems necessary to protect the servicemember. By failing to obtain court orders before repossessing motor vehicles owned by protected servicemembers, Wells Fargo prevented servicemembers from obtaining a courts review of whether their repossessions should be delayed or adjusted to account for their military service.None