A federal grand jury returned a two-count indictment against Everitt Aaron Jameson, 26, of Modesto, California, charging him with attempting to provide material support to the Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham (ISIS), a designated foreign terrorist organization, and distribution of information relating to destructive devices. The announcement was made by Attorney General Jeff Sessions, Acting Assistant Attorney General for National Security Dana J. Boente, U.S. Attorney McGregor W. Scott for the Eastern District of California and Special Agent in Charge Sean Ragan of the FBIs Sacramento Field Office. Federal law enforcement deserves our thanks for stopping a potential terrorist attack during the busy holiday season, said Attorney General Sessions. The Department of Justice will continue to take every lawful step we can to disrupt plots and to protect our nation from foreign and domestic threats, including the dangerous threat posed by radical Islamic terrorism. Our office is committed to investigating potential terrorist threats and working with our law enforcement partners to prevent those threats from being carried out, said U.S. Attorney Scott. I am grateful to the FBI for their vigilance and commitment to keeping our communities safe.  This case shows our determination to prevent acts of terrorism and to save lives, said Special Agent in Charge Ragan. We thank our law enforcement partners for their cooperation in this matter. We also remind members of the public that should they see something suspicious indicating a threat of any kind to immediately report it to law enforcement authorities. According to the indictment, between Oct. 24, 2017, and Dec. 20, 2017, Jameson offered to work in support of ISIS, knowing that the organization was engaging in terrorist activity and terrorism. Court documents allege that he had several online interactions with a confidential source, and during those interactions, he expressed support for the Oct. 31, 2017, terrorist attack in New York City and offered his services for the cause. In subsequent communications with an undercover agent, Jameson noted that his time in the U.S. military had trained him for combat and war. Later, he met with another undercover agent whom he believed to be associated with the senior leadership of ISIS and offered to carry out violent acts and provide financial support for the terrorist organization.  The indictment also alleges that, on Dec. 16, 2017, Jameson described to a person whom he believed was working for ISIS that he was well-versed with the Anarchist Cookbook, described how to build pipe bombs out of PVC pipe, gunpowder, nails and BBs, asked for remote timing devices from that person, and described how to use such destructive devices in an attack on Pier 39 in San Francisco, California to funnel people into an area in order to shoot them. None This case is the product of an investigation by the FBI. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Dawrence W. Rice Jr. and Christopher D. Baker of the Eastern District of California are prosecuting the case along with Trial Attorney Brenda Sue Thornton of the National Security Divisions Counterterrorism Section.