NoneA federal court in Orlando, Florida has preliminarily barred Jason Stinson from preparing federal tax returns for others and from operating a tax return preparation business, the Justice Department announced today. The civil order, signed by Judge Anne C. Conway of the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida, requires Stinson to immediately close all tax return preparation stores that he currently owns.According to the courts order, Stinson owns a company that operates return preparer storefronts under the name Nation Tax Services. According to the United States complaint, Stinsons stores are in Alabama, Florida, Georgia and North Carolina.The United States filed its civil injunction complaint against Stinson in September 2014. The complaint alleged that return preparers in Stinsons businesses targeted primarily low-income customers with deceptive and misleading advertisements, prepared and filed fraudulent tax returns to fraudulently increase their customers refunds and profited through unconscionable, exorbitant and often undisclosed feesall at the expense of their customers and the United States Treasury.Trial in this case is scheduled for October. To prevent the alleged fraud from continuing this tax filing season, the United States filed a motion for preliminary injunction to bar Stinson from operating his stores pending resolution of this case after trial. Following a hearing on the motion, the court today found that the United States presented enough evidence to show a pattern of false tax returns sufficient to prove it is likely to succeed on the merits at trial. The pattern of false returns alleged by the United States includes:The court found that the falsely reported numbers are not merely oversight, or a computational error, because the errors are repeated and the amounts are significant. The court added that it was most troubled that Stinsons conduct has continued even after the commencement of this lawsuit in 2014.The court also held that the Government and Stinsons customers will suffer irreparable harm if an injunction is not granted. The court emphasized the harm that Stinsons business causes his customers:Stinsons customers are relying on his business to properly handle their taxes. In return, Stinsons business exposes these primarily low-income customers to individual tax liability. Both the Government and Stinsons customers will suffer irreparable harm if an injunction is not granted. Moreover, it is in the publics best interest to protect vulnerable customers from the inaccurate preparation of their taxes, not to deplete Government resources, and to maintain the public trust in the tax system.None