NoneNone   According to information presented during the plea hearing, the case originated from an undercover investigation initiated by the FBIs Providence, R.I., Field Office.   As part of the investigation, the FBI established an undercover company, Hemphill Construction, which sought the award of union construction contracts.   Diodati began working as a consultant to Hemphill Construction in 2002, operating his own businesses out of the construction companys office in Johnston, R.I.      In 2003, Hemphill Construction was awarded a subcontract after signing a collective bargaining agreement with the Rhode Island Laborers District Council on behalf of 3 local unions, to perform demolition work at the Rising Sun Mills rehabilitation project in Providence.   Hemphill, in turn, subcontracted the work to Diodati through RI Demolition Inc., a company Diodati formed for this purpose.   According to information presented during the plea hearing, Diodati suggested to Hemphill in late 2003 that he be paid in cash for the work that his company performed on the Rising Sun Mills project.   Diodati proposed that Hemphill keep 20 percent of what he was owed and pay him the balance in cash in order to reduce his taxable income, stating that, Uncle Sam doesnt have to know about it, so it keeps me down in the lower bracket.   Diodati later noted that both Hemphill and RI Demolition made money on the scheme and that, the only one who is losing is the government.   According to information presented at the plea hearing, Diodati opened a safety deposit box at a local bank.   He then requested that the money owed him by Hemphill be paid in cash in installments placed in the safety deposit box rather than by business checks.   Between December 2003 and March 2004, Diodati received more than $230,000 in cash payments for construction work placed into his safety deposit box.   None   At sentencing, scheduled for Feb. 10, 2011, Diodati faces a maximum sentence of five years in prison, a $250,000 fine and three years of supervised release following his prison term.   Diodati has agreed to pay restitution in the amount of $194,031.      The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Scott Lawson of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Racketeering Section and Trial Attorney Jessica Nuzzellilo of the Tax Division. The case was investigated by the IRS  Criminal Investigation and the FBI.