  A patient recruiter and a therapy staffing company owner pleaded guilty today in connection with a $7 million health care fraud scheme involving the now defunct home health care company Anna Nursing Services Corp.  Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Departments Criminal Division; U.S. Attorney Wifredo A. Ferrer of the Southern District of Florida; Special Agent in Charge Michael B. Steinbach of the FBIs Miami Field Office; and Special Agent in Charge Christopher B. Dennis of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General (HHS-OIG) Office of Investigations Miami office made the announcement.  Ivan Alejo, 48, and Hugo Morales, 36, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Jose E. Martinez in the Southern District of Florida to one count of conspiracy to commit health care fraud. At sentencing, scheduled for Nov. 5, 2013, Alejo and Morales each face a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison.  Alejo worked as a patient recruiter at Anna Nursing, a home health care agency in Miami Springs, Fla., that purported to provide home health and therapy services to Medicare beneficiaries but in reality billed Medicare for expensive physical therapy and home health care services that were not medically necessary and/or were not provided. Morales owned Professionals Therapy Staffing Services Inc., which provided therapists to Anna Nursing.  Alejo and his co-conspirators negotiated and paid kickbacks and bribes to patient recruiters in return for the recruiters providing patients to Anna Nursing for home health and therapy services that were medically unnecessary and/or not provided. He and others also paid kickbacks and bribes to co-conspirators in doctors offices and clinics in exchange for home health and therapy prescriptions, medical certifications, and other documentation. Alejo and his co-conspirators would use the prescriptions, medical certifications and other documentation to fraudulently bill the Medicare program for home health care services.NoneNoneNone