None   The departments Antitrust Division filed a civil antitrust lawsuit today in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia to block the proposed acquisition.   At the same time, the department filed a proposed settlement that, if approved by the court, would resolve the competitive concerns alleged in the lawsuit.   The acquisition as originally proposed would have lessened the vigorous competition that currently exists among manufacturers of large main engine generators, aircraft turbine engines and engine control systems for large aircraft turbine engines, said Jamillia Ferris, Chief of Staff and Counsel at the Department of Justices Antitrust Division.   The departments Antitrust Division, the European Commission and the Canadian Competition Bureau cooperated closely throughout the course of their respective investigations, with frequent contact among the agencies.   In addition, the Antitrust Division had discussions with other competition agencies, including the Federal Competition Commission in Mexico and the Administrative Council for Economic Defense in Brazil.   The Antitrust Divisions dialogue with our international counterparts around the world facilitated our investigation, said Ferris. In particular, the divisions close cooperation with the European Commission and Canadian Competition Bureau resulted in a coordinated remedy that will preserve competition in the United States and internationally.   The departments complaint alleges that the proposed acquisition would lessen competition substantially in the worldwide markets for the development, manufacture and sale of large main engine generators, aircraft turbine engines and engine control systems for large aircraft turbine engines.   The department said that the acquisition, as originally proposed, would combine the only two significant suppliers of large main engine generators for aircraft in the world.   UTC also would acquire Goodrichs engine control systems business, which supplies critical components to several of UTCs leading competitors for aircraft turbine engines.   Finally, UTC, which is currently one of three leading suppliers of engine control systems for large aircraft turbine engines, would acquire Goodrichs 50 percent share in a joint venture that forms one of the other two producers of such engine control systems. None   The proposed settlement requires UTC to divest the following assets:  In addition, the proposed settlement provides:  The extension of Rolls-Royces option to acquire the Goodrich aftermarket business will ensure that Rolls-Royce has sufficient control over the AEC aftermarket business. The extension of the customer contracts for the engine control systems business will ensure that Goodrichs engine control systems customers have a reliable source of supply during the divestiture period. None None   As required by the Tunney Act, the proposed settlement, along with a competitive impact statement, will be published in the Federal Register.   Any person may submit written comments concerning the proposed settlement during a 60-day comment period to Maribeth Petrizzi, Chief, Litigation II Section, Antitrust Division, U.S. Department of Justice, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Suite 8700, Washington, D.C. 20530.   At the conclusion of the 60-day comment period, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia may approve the proposed settlement upon finding it is in the public interest.