Two Missouri men pleaded guilty today for their roles in a scheme to defraud consumers seeking immigration-related services, the Department of Justice announced. None Over a year ago, the Department of Justice announced its commitment to combatting immigration services scams, which often prey upon individuals who are in this country legally and trying to abide by the rules, said Acting Associate Attorney General Tony West. Todays guilty pleas represent an important step in our continued fight to protect vulnerable individuals against fraud. Those who seek to defraud immigrants should heed the message of this case: you cannot take advantage of someones unfamiliarity with the immigration process, engage in fraud, and expect to get away with it, said Stuart Delery, Acting Assistant Attorney General of the Justice Departments Civil Division. According to court documents, Strawbridge founded and owned IFP, while Laurence managed the business, which operated in 2009 and 2010. In pleading guilty, Strawbridge and Laurence admitted that IFP representatives falsely told consumers that the company employed paralegals who would help customers correctly fill out immigration forms, that IFP handled excess call volume for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), that fees paid to IFP included government processing fees, and that forms purchased through IFP would be processed more quickly than if consumers dealt directly with USCIS. This company preyed on legal immigrants who were doing their best to follow the law, said David M. Ketchmark, Acting U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Missouri. These defendants operated a busy call center where so-called agents lied to hundreds of customers about the firms affiliation with the government. Their victims paid more than $400,000 in total to purchase government forms that anyone can obtain for free. U.S. District Judge Nannette K. Laughrey presided over the change of plea hearing. Elizabeth Lindsey Meredith, 24, was also charged in the scheme. None None