Charges were filed today against 25 Miami-area defendants in three separate cases for their alleged participation in various schemes to defraud Medicare of approximately $26 million in false claims through the Medicare Part D program.Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Wifredo A. Ferrer of the Southern District of Florida, Assistant Special Agent in Charge William J. Maddalena of the FBIs Miami Division and Special Agent in Charge Shimon R. Richmond of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services-Office of Inspector Generals (HHS-OIG) Miami Regional Office made the announcement.These cases build on our recent efforts to focus on Medicare prescription drug benefit fraud, targeting those who take advantage of the fastest-growing component of the Medicare program, said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. Working with our partners in the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, the Criminal Division uses cutting-edge data analysis techniques to identify emerging fraud schemes and to stay ahead of the criminal curve.Those who commit Medicare fraud through the filing of false claims, payment or receipt of kickbacks, or fraudulent medical practices jeopardize the integrity of the government benefit programs that countless citizens rely on for their well-being, said U.S. Attorney Ferrer. The U.S. Attorneys Office and our law enforcement allies will continue to pro-actively identify for prosecution the individuals who pay kick-backs for the unauthorized use of Medicare benefits for their own illicit financial gain.The actions of the FBI and our partners in the Medicare Fraud Strike Force have disrupted several health care fraud operations today, said Assistant Special Agent in Charge Maddalena. Unfortunately, South Florida remains ground zero for these types of scams. As such, we will continue to pursue those individuals who pay kickbacks and fraudulently bill for medical services that are not necessary or ever provided.A dangerous trend is fraudulent pharmacy billing for drugs, said Special Agent in Charge Richmond. But exploitation of the Medicare prescription drug benefit will not be tolerated and suspects will face aggressive investigation and prosecution.NoneAssistant U.S. Attorney James Hayes of the Southern District of Florida is prosecuting this case.NoneTrial Attorney Vasanth Sridharan of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section is prosecuting this case.NoneAssistant U.S. Attorney Christopher Clark of the Southern District of Florida is prosecuting this case.The Medicare Fraud Strike Force operations are part of the Health Care Fraud Prevention & Enforcement Action Team (HEAT), a joint initiative announced in May 2009 by the Department of Justice and HHS to focus their efforts to prevent and deter fraud and enforce current anti-fraud laws around the country. Since its inception in March 2007, the Medicare Fraud Strike Force has charged over 2,300 defendants who have collectively billed the Medicare program for more than $7 billion. In addition, the HHS Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, working in conjunction with the HHS-OIG, are taking steps to increase accountability and decrease the presence of fraudulent providers.In the Southern District of Florida, nearly 900 individuals have been charged for their involvement in more than $2.5 billion in fraudulent Medicare billings.Part D prescription medicine coverage is the fastest-growing area of the Medicare program. Last year alone, more than $120 billion was spent on the Medicare Part D program, up from $78 billion in 2010. Based on U.S. Government Accountability Office estimates, as much as $10 billion of last years $120 billion in Medicare Part D spending may be fraudulent. The Department of Justice, along with its law enforcement partners, is committed to aggressively targeting Part D fraud.The Medicare Fraud Strike Force investigated the various cases with assistance from the FBI and HHS-OIG.An indictment is merely an allegation, and all defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.NoneNoneNoneNone