Used Illegal Proceeds to Buy Property and Gold CoinsA federal grand jury sitting in Ft. Myers, Florida returned an indictment on Feb. 15, which was unsealed today, charging a Lee County, Florida resident with mail fraud, money laundering, and corruptly endeavoring to impede the administration of the internal revenue laws, announced ActingDeputy Assistant Attorney General Stuart M. Goldberg of the Justice Departments Tax Division and U.S. Attorney A. Lee Bentley III for the Middle District of Florida.According to the indictment, Attila Kalmar filed 2007 through 2009 trust returns with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in the name of First AK-Open Sec Trust, a nominee entity, seeking more than $480,000 in fraudulent refunds.Kalmar deposited a refund check he received as a result of these filings into a bank account, and then used the proceeds to purchase real property, acquire thousands of dollars in gold coins, and wire money overseas.The indictment further alleges that Kalmar attempted to impede the internal revenue laws by transferring funds between nominee bank accounts and falsely representing to the IRS that an IRS revenue officer was the trustee for First AK-Open Sec Trust.An indictment merely alleges that crimes have been committed.A defendant is presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.If convicted, Kalmar faces a statutory maximum sentence of 20 years in prison for each mail fraud count, 10 years in prison for each money laundering count, and three years in prison for corruptly endeavoring to impede the administration of the internal revenue laws.Kalmar also faces a period of supervised release, restitution, forfeiture, and monetary penalties.Acting Deputy Assistant Attorney General Goldberg and U.S. Attorney Bentley commended special agents of IRSCriminal Investigation and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA), who conducted the investigation, and Trial Attorneys Kathryn A. Kimball and William M. Montague of the Tax Division and Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael C. Bagg-Hernndez of the Middle District of Florida, who are prosecuting the case.Additional information about the Tax Division and its enforcement efforts may be found on the divisions website.None