  WASHINGTONA federal grand jury in Mobile, Ala., today returned a 28-count indictment against three individuals for conspiring to falsely label, smuggle and misbrand more than 325,000 pounds of seafood in order to avoid paying tariffs and defraud customers, the Justice Department announced.  According to the indictment, Karen L. Blyth of Paradise Valley, Ariz., was the co-owner and president of two companies, CSE Inc., in Phoenix and RF Inc., in Pensacola, Fla., that traded in a variety of seafood products. David H. M. Phelps of Scottsdale, Ariz., co-owned CSE and RF and served as a vice president. John J. Popa of Pensacola, co-owned RF with Blyth and Phelps and served as the companys vice president.  The indictment alleges that the three used CSE to supply RF, among others, with falsely labeled fish that were in turn sold to RFs customers in Alabama and the Florida panhandle. RF sold the mislabeled seafood and substituted cheaper product for more expensive seafood. As part of the conspiracy, the three caused the fish from the boxes that were correctly labeled to be removed and placed into boxes that bore no description or falsely labeled the fish.  Blyth and Phelps also arranged for CSE to purchase hundreds of thousands of pounds of frozen fillets of catfish through a company in Vietnam knowing that the catfish would be mislabeled to avoid import tariffs. A January 2003, anti-dumping tariff was placed on all imports of Vietnamese catfish into the United States because the Vietnamese catfish was being marketed at a significantly lower price than was market rate at the time. That initial anti-dumping order imposed a duty of up to 63.88 percent on fish subject to the order.  In order to do this, the two provided the Vietnamese company false shipping labels and generated purchase orders and other false documentation to conceal the product. Blyth, Phelps and Popa then had RF purchase the falsely labeled fish in small increments from CSE to sell to its Alabama and Florida customers.  Specifically, Blyth, Phelps and Popa were charged with conspiracy to:None  In addition, Blyth, Phelps, and Popa were charged with:  Finally, Popa was charged with three felony counts of falsely labeling live and shucked oysters in violation of the Lacey Act, resulting from his changing the harvest date on the oyster tags and labels to falsely indicate a more recent harvest date.  An indictment is merely an accusation, and a defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty in a court of law.None  The maximum penalty for each smuggling count is up to 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. The maximum penalty for each violation of the Lacey Act includes up to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. The maximum penalty for each misbranding count includes up to three years in prison and a $250,000 fine.None