EBI LLC, doing business as Biomet Spine and Bone Healing Technologies and Biomet Inc. have agreed to pay $6.07 million to resolve allegations that EBI violated the False Claims Act by paying kickbacks to induce use of its bone growth stimulators and billing federal health care programs for refurbished stimulators, the Department of Justice announced today. EBI is a medical device company located in Parsippany, New Jersey, that sells bone growth stimulators, which are used to repair fractures that are slow to heal. It is a subsidiary of Biomet, which is based in Warsaw, Indiana.Medical device companies must not use improper financial incentives to influence the decision to use their products, said Acting Deputy Assistant Attorney General August Flentje of the Justice Departments Civil Division. This settlement demonstrates the departments commitment to protect patients, and the taxpayers who fund their care, by ensuring that medical decisions are based on the patients medical needs rather than the financial interests of others.The United States alleged that, from 2001 to 2008, EBI paid staff at doctors offices to influence doctors to order its bone growth stimulators. These payments were allegedly provided pursuant to personal service agreements with staff members. The United States concluded that these payments violated the Anti-Kickback Act and resulted in false billings to various federal health care programs, including Medicare. The settlement also resolves EBIs disclosure that it received federal reimbursements for bone growth stimulators that had been refurbished.This settlement demonstrates our resolve in ensuring that patients receive, and the government pays for, health care that is based on sound medical judgment, and not compromised by kickbacks, said U.S. Attorney Carmen M. Ortiz of the District of Massachusetts.Kickbacks taint medical decision-making, cause overutilization of services, and lead to increased taxpayer and patient costs, said Special Agent in Charge Phillip Coyne of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General (HHS-OIG). These improper inducements have no place in government health programs relied on by millions of Americans.NoneThis settlement illustrates the governments emphasis on combating health care fraud and marks another achievement for the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT) initiative, which was announced in May 2009 by the Attorney General and the Secretary of Health and Human Services. The partnership between the two departments has focused efforts to reduce and prevent Medicare and Medicaid financial fraud through enhanced cooperation. One of the most powerful tools in this effort is the False Claims Act. Since January 2009, the Justice Department has recovered a total of more than $23 billion through False Claims Act cases, with more than $14.8 billion of that amount recovered in cases involving fraud against federal health care programs.The settlement was the result of a coordinated effort by the Commercial Litigation Branch of the Civil Division; the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Massachusetts; HHS-OIG; the U.S. Postal Service Office of Inspector General; the Defense Criminal Investigative Service; the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, Office of Inspector General and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, Office of Criminal Investigations.None