  A jury found a Dothan, Alabama,  woman guilty of conspiring to defraud the government through the filing of false  tax returns, Deputy Assistant Attorney General Ronald A. Cimino of the Justice  Department's Tax Division and U.S. Attorney George L. Beck Jr. for the Middle  District of Alabama announced today.   Nina Macena, 32, was also found  guilty of three counts of wire fraud and three counts of aggravated identity  theft.   According to evidence from the  trial, Macena provided stolen identities to Ivory Bolen, also of Dothan, who  used the identities to file false tax returns that fraudulently requested  refunds from the government.  Bolen would attempt to have the refunds deposited  onto prepaid debit cards, which would be mailed to addresses controlled by Bolen  and Macena.  Macena obtained the identities from Roderick Neal, a former bail  bondsman in Dothan, who had access to the personal information of individuals  who had been detained at the Dothan City Jail.  Both Bolen and Neal previously  pleaded guilty to their involvement in the scheme.   The evidence from the trial also  showed that Bolen, acting at the direction of law enforcement, made several  phone calls to Macena asking her to obtain more identities.  Macena agreed to do  so and said she would attempt to get more identities from a friend at the  bonding company.  Macena also stated in the calls that she had stolen  identities in a storage unit.  The next day federal agents executed a search  warrant at Macenas storage unit and seizedstolen identities and prepaid debit  cards in the names of victims of the scheme.  Altogether, Bolen filed tax  returns claiming more than $300,000 in refunds using the stolen identities  provided by Macena.  The Internal Revenue Service (IRS), however, successfully  stopped a number of the fraudulent returns.   Macena testified in her own  defense at trial and admitted that she had obtained information from Neal for  Bolen, but claimed that she was unaware of the nature of the information.  She  also testified that she stored items for Bolen in her storage unit, but that she  was unaware of what she was storing.   Macena was ultimately convicted  by the jury on all counts in the indictment.  At sentencing Oct. 23, she faces a  statutory maximum sentence of 10 years in prison for the conspiracy count, a  statutory maximum sentence of 20 years in prison for the three wire fraud  convictions and a mandatory sentence of two years in prison for the aggravated  identity theft convictions.  Her actual sentence, however, will be decided by a  federal judge after considering the federal sentencing guidelines and statutory  sentencing factors.   This case was investigated by  special agents of the IRS - Criminal Investigation.  Trial Attorneys Jason Poole  and Charles Edgar of the Tax Division prosecuted the case with the assistance of  the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Middle District of Alabama. None