The Department of Justice obtained more than $4.7 billion in settlements and judgments from civil cases involving fraud and false claims against the government in fiscal year 2016 ending Sept. 30, Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer, head of the Justice Departments Civil Division, announced today. This is the third highest annual recovery in False Claims Act history, bringing the fiscal year average to nearly $4 billion since fiscal year 2009, and the total recovery during that period to $31.3 billion.Congress amended the False Claims Act 30 years ago to give the government a more effective tool against false and fraudulent claims against federal programs, said Mizer. An astonishing 60percent of those recoveries were obtained in the last eight years. The beneficiaries of these efforts include veterans, the elderly, and low-income families who are insured by federal health care programs; families and students who are able to afford homes and go to college thanks to federally insured loans; and all of us who are protected by the governments investment in national security and defense. In short, Americans across the country are healthier, enjoy a better quality of life, and are safer because of our continuing success in protecting taxpayer funds from misuse.Of the $4.7billion recovered, $2.5 billion came from the health care industry, including drug companies, medical device companies, hospitals, nursing homes, laboratories, and physicians. The $2.5 billion recovered in fiscal year 2016 reflects only federal losses. In many of these cases, the Department was instrumental in recovering additional millions of dollars for state Medicaid programs. This is the seventh consecutive year the Departments civil health care fraud recoveries have exceeded $2 billion.The next largest recoveries came from the financial industry in the wake of the housing and mortgage fraud crisis. Settlements and judgments in cases alleging false claims in connection with federally insured residential mortgages totaled nearly $1.7 billion in fiscal year 2016  the second highest annual recovery in this area.The False Claims Act is the governments primary civil remedy to redress false claims for government funds and property under government programs and contracts relating to such varied areas as health care, defense and national security, food safety and inspection, federally insured loans and mortgages, highway funds, small business contracts, agricultural subsidies, disaster assistance, and import tariffs. In 1986, Congress strengthened the Act by amending it to increase incentives for whistleblowers to file lawsuits alleging false claims on behalf of the government.NoneHealth Care Fraud NoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneThese health care recoveries benefit vulnerable citizens in Medicare and Medicaid and the taxpayers who pay for those programs, said Inspector General Daniel R. Levinson of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Beyond those significant settlements, though, my agency works to improve voluntary observance of federal laws through corporate integrity agreements addressing compliance weaknesses, and self-disclosures that encourage health care providers and other entities to voluntarily report suspected violations.Housing and Mortgage FraudNoneWells Fargo and Freedom Mortgage both admitted that they had originated and endorsed residential mortgages as eligible for federal insurance by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) that did not meet requirements intended to reduce the risk of default. This put consumers at risk of losing their homes in foreclosure and increased the number of claims against the FHA when their loans went into default. The banks also admitted failing to report such deficiencies to the authorities as required under the program, despite internal reports exposing high rates of underwriting deficiencies that would have put the agency on notice so it could prevent continued program violations and mounting losses. By originating and endorsing ineligible loans for FHA insurance, the banks increased their mortgage profits at taxpayer expense while incurring little or no risk of their own.As part of the Wells Fargo settlement, the banks vice president of Credit Risk  Quality Assurance, Kurt Lofrano, admitted that he annually certified Wells Fargos compliance with FHAs Direct Endorsement Lender program and the banks continued qualification to remain in the program.NoneOther Fraud Recoveries NoneNoneNoneThe Department also recovered $50 million in customs fraud. U.S. Customs and Border Protection collects duties on imports of foreign goods to protect U.S. manufacturers from unfair competition abroad by leveling the playing field for domestic products. Importers who seek an unfair advantage by knowingly evading or reducing their obligation to pay these duties are subject to damages and penalties under the False Claims Act. These recoveries both address lost duties and safeguard U.S. markets.These suits and settlements illustrate the diversity of cases pursued by the Department and the Departments quest to root out fraud and false claims against the government wherever it may be found.Holding Individuals Accountable On Sept. 9, 2015, the Department issued a memorandum on individual accountability for corporate wrongdoing. This memorandum reinforced the Departments commitment to use the False Claims Act and other civil remedies to deter and redress fraud by individuals as well as corporations.NoneNoneRecoveries in Whistleblower SuitsNoneNoneNoneIn 1986, Senator Charles Grassley and Representative Howard Berman led the successful efforts in Congress to amend the False Claims Act to, among other things, encourage whistleblowers to come forward with allegations of fraud. In 2009, Senator Patrick J. Leahy, along with Senator Grassley and Representative Berman, championed the Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act of 2009, which made additional improvements to the False Claims Act and its whistleblower provisions. And in 2010, the passage of the Affordable Care Act provided additional inducements and protections for whistleblowers.Mizer also expressed his deep appreciation for the many dedicated public servants who investigated and pursued these cases  the attorneys, investigators, auditors, and other agency personnel throughout the Departments Civil Division and the U.S. Attorneys Offices, as well as the agency Offices of Inspector General, and the many federal and state agencies that contributed to the Departments recoveries this past fiscal year.The Departments lawyers and staff, together with our law enforcement partners in federal and state governments, work tirelessly and often overcome daunting challenges, said Mizer. Their efforts continue to pay for themselves many times over, providing substantial benefits to the taxpayers.The governments claims in the matters described above are allegations only; except where indicated, there has been no determination of liability. The numbers contained in this press release may differ slightly from the original press releases due to accrued interest.  