A former executive managing director of Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC (Och-Ziff), a New York-based hedge fund, was charged in an indictment unsealed today for his alleged participation in a scheme to defraud one of the hedge funds clients, a large charitable foundation, when recommending financial investments relating to the African mining sector.  Acting Assistant Attorney General John P. Cronan of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, Acting U.S. Attorney Bridget M. Rohde of the Eastern District of New York, Assistant Director in Charge William F. Sweeney Jr. of the FBIs New York Field Office and Special Agent in Charge James D. Robnett of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigations (IRS-CI) New York office made the announcement. Michael Leslie Cohen, 46, of London, England was charged with one count of conspiracy to commit investment adviser fraud, one count of investment adviser fraud, one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud, four counts of wire fraud, one count of conspiracy to obstruct justice, one count of obstruction of justice and one count of making false statements. The indictment was returned under seal by a federal grand jury sitting in Brooklyn, New York on Oct. 5, 2017, and relates to Cohens alleged conduct between 2008 and 2013.  NoneNoneIn addition, the indictment alleges that in order to conceal his fraudulent scheme and self-dealing, Cohen conspired with others to cover up facts about the transaction after the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) began investigating Och-Ziff in 2011. Cohen and others allegedly engaged in a number of acts to obstruct investigations, including concocting a false, backdated letter and making false statements to federal agents and the SEC.  The charges in the  indictment are merely allegations, and the  defendant is presumed innocent unless proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law. The FBIs New York Field Office and IRS-CIs New York office are investigating the case. Trial Attorney Gerald M. Moody Jr. of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and Assistant U.S.  Attorneys David C. Pitluck, James P. McDonald, a former Fraud Section trial attorney, and Jonathan P. Lax of the Eastern District of New York are prosecuting the case. The Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs provided significant assistance in this matter. The Department appreciates the significant cooperation and assistance provided by the SECs Boston Regional Office in this matter.