  Ivan Soto-Barraza, who is charged  with the first degree murder of United States Border Patrol Agent Brian Terry,  was extradited to the United States from Mexico today, announced Attorney  General Eric Holder and U.S. Attorney Laura E. Duffy of the Southern District of  California.   Agent Terry was fatally shot on  Dec. 14, 2010, when he and other Border Patrol agents encountered Soto-Barraza  and others in a rural area north of Nogales, Arizona. Of six defendants charged  so far, two have pleaded guilty and two are awaiting trial.   This marks another step forward  in our aggressive pursuit of those responsible for the murder of Agent Brian  Terry, who made the ultimate sacrifice while serving his country, said Attorney  General Holder. "We will never stop seeking justice against those who do harm to  our best and bravest."   This extradition is another  major development in the pursuit of justice for Agent Terry and his family,  said U.S. Attorney Laura Duffy. As we continue to make significant progress in  this case, we are constantly motivated by the memory of Agent Terry and his  sacrifice for our country.   Soto-Barraza is scheduled to be  arraigned in federal district court in Tucson, Arizona, on August 1, 2014. The  indictment charges Soto-Barraza and others with first degree murder, second  degree murder, conspiracy to interfere with commerce by robbery, attempted  interference with commerce by robbery, use and carrying a firearm during a crime  of violence and assault on a federal officer. In addition to the murder of Agent  Terry, the indictment alleges that the defendants assaulted Border Patrol Agents  William Castano, Gabriel Fragoza and Timothy Keller, who were with Agent Terry  during the firefight.   On July 20, 2012, in order to  seek the publics assistance, Department of Justice officials announced a reward  of up to $1 million for information leading to the arrest of four fugitives:  Jesus Rosario Favela-Astorga, Heraclio Osorio-Arellanes, Lionel Portillo-Meza  and Soto-Barraza. Portillo-Meza was captured in Mexico in September 2012 and  extradited to the U.S. from Mexico on June 17, 2014. Soto-Barraza was captured  in Mexico in September 2013.    Favela-Astorga and Osorio-Arellanes are fugitives.   A fifth defendant, Manuel Osorio-Arellanes, pleaded guilty to  first degree murder and was sentenced to 30 years in prison in February 2014. A  sixth defendant, Rito Osorio-Arellanes, who was in custody at the time of Agent  Terrys murder, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to interfere with commerce by  robbery and was sentenced to eight years in prison in January 2013.   This case is being prosecuted in federal court in Tucson by  attorneys from the Southern District of California, Special Attorneys Todd W.  Robinson, David D. Leshner, and Fred Sheppard.    The U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Arizona is recused.   This case is being investigated by the FBI.  The Justice Departments Office of International Affairs provided assistance  with the extradition.   The public is reminded that an indictment is a formal charging  document and defendants are presumed innocent until the government meets its  burden in court of proving guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.