The U.S. District Court for the District of Kansas entered a consent decree of permanent injunction against Native American Enterprises LLC (NAE), of Wichita, Kansas; its vice president and part-owner, William N. McGreevy; and its production manager, Robert C. Conner, to stop the distribution of adulterated food, the Department of Justice announced today.NoneListeria Monocytogenes is a very dangerous bacteria, and its presence in a food production facility is of great concern, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer, head of the Department of Justices Civil Division. The Department of Justice will continue to work aggressively with the FDA to ensure a safe food supply.On May 27, the parties filed a consent decree of permanent injunction, by which the defendants agreed to resolve the litigation. The consent decree of permanent injunction, entered by the district court, requires the defendants to cease all manufacture or distribution of food (including RTE refried beans and sauces) other than meat products. Meat products are regulated separately by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). In the event that defendants intend to resume the manufacture or distribution of food other than meat products, they will only be allowed to do so with FDA approval and under strict supervision. The defendants will also be required to destroy, under FDAs supervision, any such products already in existence.With respect to meat products, USDAs Food Safety Inspection Service (FSIS) conducts daily on-site operations inspections at all firms manufacturing USDA FSIS regulated products pursuant to the Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act and the Egg Products Inspection Act.According to the complaint filed in this matter, FDA inspected NAEs facility, located at 230 N. West Street in Wichita, in August 2015, collected environmental samples, and observed numerous insanitary practices, including the defendants failure to manufacture and package food under conditions necessary to minimize microorganism growth, take necessary precautions to protect against contamination and maintain buildings in good repair. Specifically, according to the complaint, FDA observed rain water leaking through the roof in the packaging room, directly above where NAE employees packaged RTE refried beans. In addition, FDA observed cracks and holes in the walls and floor junctures that allow water and debris to collect, prohibit adequate cleaning and could harbor Listeria, according to the complaint.FDA inspected NAEs facility twice in 2014. As alleged in the complaint, FDA collected environmental samples during RTE refried beans production during each of the 2014 inspections and found Listeria in the facility. In addition, as alleged in the complaint, FDA also observed a failure to maintain equipment in an acceptable condition through appropriate cleaning and sanitizing.NoneThe government is represented by Trial Attorney Heide L. Herrmann of the Civil Divisions Consumer Protection Branch and Assistant U.S. Attorney Emily Metzger of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Kansas, with the assistance of Associate Chief Counsel for Enforcement Sonia W. Nath of the Food and Drug Division, Office of General Counsel, Department of Health and Human Services.None