A former business manager of the Local 657 of the Laborers International Union of North America (LIUNA) was charged with stealing from the organization.Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, Assistant Director in Charge Paul M. Abbate of the FBIs Washington, D.C., Field Office, Special Agent in Charge Steven D. Anderson of the Department of Labor Office of Inspector Generals Office of Labor Racketeering and Fraud Investigations Washington, D.C., Regional Office and District Director Mark Wheeler of the Department of Labors Office of Labor Management Standards Washington, D.C., District Office made the announcement.Anthony Wendel Frederick Sr., 49, of Upper Marlboro, Maryland, the former Business Manager of Local 657 of LIUNA based in Washington, D.C., was charged by criminal complaint with one count of theft from a labor organization. The defendant was arrested today and is scheduled to have his initial appearance at 1:45 p.m. EDT before U.S. Magistrate Judge G. Michael Harvey of the District of Columbia.LIUNA is a labor organization that represents laborers in the construction industry. LIUNAs Local 657 represents construction laborers in Washington, D.C. and five adjacent counties. For approximately 10 years, until June 2014, Frederick served as the business manager for Local 657.The criminal complaint alleges that, from May 2013 to June 2014, Frederick directed more than $1.7 million in Local 657 funds to STS Contracting of Greenbelt, Maryland, without the knowledge or authorization of the Local 657 Executive Board or officials in LIUNA International. Specifically, according to the criminal complaint, a routine audit of the local union by LIUNA in June 2014 revealed that Frederick had paid nearly $1.1 million to STS Contracting for minimal renovations at the Local 657 administrative building. In addition, the complaint alleges that, without authorization, Frederick directed over $580,000 in Local 657 funds to STS Contracting for expediting permits for the construction of a new training center for Local 657, which project was being handled by another construction firm. According to the criminal complaint, the LIUNA auditor also discovered that Frederick grossly overpaid STS Contracting for expediting various permits, including $20,000 to expedite a $143 excavation permit, and over $20,000 to renew existing permits, which could have been accomplished online for approximately $250 apiece.The criminal complaint further alleges that STS Contracting paid a down payment of $225,000 on a home purchased by Frederick, and directed more than $600,000 to a corporation owned in part by Fredericks wife. In addition, STS Contracting principals allegedly depleted a company bank account, which contained only stolen Local 657 funds, by withdrawing more than $500,000 in cash and using the remainder for personal items, entertainment, shopping trips, hotel stays and overseas travel.The charges and allegations contained in a criminal complaint are merely accusations. The defendant is presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty.The case is being investigated by the FBI and the Department of Labor. The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Vincent Falvo of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section.None