A former senior vice president of sales for a packaged seafood company pleaded guilty for his role in a conspiracy to fix the price of packaged seafood, such as canned tuna, sold in the United States, the Department of Justice announced today.According to documents filed in this case, Stephen Hodge and his co-conspirators agreed to fix the prices of packaged seafood from as early as 2011 through 2013. He pleaded guilty to a one-count criminal information filed on May 30, 2017, in U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California in San Francisco. Hodge has agreed to pay a criminal fine and cooperate with the Antitrust Divisions ongoing investigation. He will be sentenced by the court at a later date.With todays plea, the Antitrust Division continues to send a strong signal that senior executives will be held accountable for their actions, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Andrew Finch of the Justice Departments Antitrust Division. The division, along with our law enforcement colleagues, will continue to investigate price fixing among packaged seafood companies and the executives who worked at those companies.The FBI will not tolerate the reprehensible behavior of company executives who abuse the trust of the American public for personal gain, said FBI San Francisco Division Special Agent in Charge John F. Bennett. We, along with our Justice Department partners, are dedicated to our ongoing investigations into price fixing and will bring these companies to justice.According to court documents, Hodge and his co-conspirators discussed the prices of packaged seafood sold in the United States and agreed to fix the prices of those products. Hodge and his co-conspirators negotiated prices and issued price announcements for packaged seafood in accordance with the agreements they reached. Including Hodge, three executives have pleaded guilty for their participation in this conspiracy. Bumble Bee Foods LLC has also been charged for its role in the price-fixing conspiracy. Bumble Bee Foods has a court appearance scheduled for August 2, 2017.None