  A Russian national indicted for  hacking into point of sale systems at retailers throughout the United States and  operating websites that distributed credit card data of thousands of credit card  holders appeared today for arraignment in U.S. federal court, announced U.S.  Attorney Jenny A. Durkan of the Western District of Washington and Assistant  Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal  Division.   Cyber-criminals should take  heed: distance will not protect you from the reach of justice.   We will investigate, we will locate, and we  will bring foreign hackers to stand trial, said U.S. Attorney Jenny A. Durkan.    This defendant is presumed innocent,  and will be afforded the full protections of our system of justice.   But he will do so in our courthouse, in the  community where harm was done.   Cyber-criminals have caused  enormous financial damage and innumerable invasions of Americans privacy, often  from halfway around the world, said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell.   The alleged crimes in this case harmed  thousands of U.S. citizens, and thanks to our law enforcement partners  throughout the world, we will have the opportunity to seek justice in a U.S.  courtroom.   Roman Valerevich Seleznev, aka  Track2, 30, of Vladivostok, Russia, was indicted by a federal grand jury in  the Western District of Washington on March 3, 2011, and the indictment was  unsealed on July 7, 2014.   Seleznev is  charged in connection with operating several carding forums, which are websites  where criminals gather to sell stolen credit card numbers, and hacking into  retail point of sale systems and installing malicious software on the systems to  steal credit card numbers.   Seleznev was  transferred to Seattle, Washington, from Guam, where he made his initial  appearance on July 7, 2014.   Today,  Seleznev entered pleas of not guilty to the charges in the indictment.   Trial is scheduled for October 6, 2014.   According to the allegations in  the indictment, Seleznev hacked into retail point of sale systems to steal  credit card numbers between October 2009 and February 2011.   Seleznev also created and operated  infrastructure using servers located all over the world to facilitate the theft  and sale of credit card data and host carding forums.   Seleznev is charged with 29 counts: five  counts of bank fraud, eight counts of intentionally causing damage to a  protected computer, eight counts of obtaining information from a protected  computer without authorization, one count of possession with intent to defraud  of 15 or more unauthorized access devices (stolen credit card numbers), two  counts of trafficking in unauthorized access devices and five counts of  aggravated identity theft.   This case will no doubt serve as  a serious warning to cyber criminals.    The Secret Service will partner with law enforcement worldwide and will  not relent in the pursuit of transnational cyber criminals that try to exploit  the U.S. financial payment systems said Secret Service Assistant Director Paul  Morrissey of the Office of Investigations.   The case is being investigated by  the U.S. Secret Service Electronic Crimes Task Force, which includes detectives  from the Seattle Police Department.   The  case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Norman M. Barbosa  of the Western District of Washington and Trial Attorney Ethan Arenson of the  Criminal Divisions Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section.   The Criminal Divisions Office of  International Affairs and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Guam  provided substantial assistance.   Seleznev has also been charged in  an indictment filed in the District of Nevada that was returned on Jan. 10,  2012, and unsealed on Nov. 13, 2013, alleging that he participated in a  racketeer influenced corrupt organization, conspired to engage in a racketeer  influenced corrupt organization, and possessed counterfeit access devices.   Seleznev, referenced as Track2 in the indictment, and 54 others are charged  with being members of the Carder.su organization, which allegedly trafficked  in compromised credit card account data and counterfeit identifications and  committed money laundering, narcotics trafficking, and various types of computer  crime.  Seleznev allegedly operated a website that sold stolen card information  to members of the Carder.su organization.    Thus far, at least 25 of the defendants have been convicted, and several  others are fugitives.   The Nevada investigation is being  handled by Immigration and Customs Enforcement  Homeland Security  Investigations and the U.S. Secret Service.    The Nevada case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Kimberly  M. Frayn and Andrew W. Duncan of the District of Nevada and Trial Attorney  Jonathan Ophardt of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section.    The charges contained in the  indictments are only allegations.   A  person is presumed innocent unless and until he or she is proven guilty beyond a  reasonable doubt in a court of law.