  A federal jury in Omaha,  Nebraska, found Donna Marie Kozak guilty on Friday of conspiracy to file and  filing false liens against two U.S. District Court judges, the U.S. Attorney for  the District of Nebraska, two Assistant U.S. Attorneys and an Internal Revenue  Service (IRS) special agent, the Justice Department announced.   The federal jury also convicted  Kozak of filing a false claim against the United States for $660,000 and for  corruptly endeavoring to obstruct the due administration of the internal revenue  laws.  Kozak was remanded into custody pending sentencing.  The maximum prison  term for each false lien charge is 10 years,  five years for the false claim  charge and three years for the obstructing the IRS charge.  Many of the offenses  have an additional 10 years of potential imprisonment because they were  committed while Kozak was on pretrial release.   Based on the evidence introduced  at trial and court filings, Kozak, a former member of the so-called sovereign  citizen group Republic for the united States of America, engaged in a  conspiracy to retaliate against federal officials involved in the criminal  investigation and prosecution of David and Bernita Kleensang, associates of  Kozak who were convicted of federal tax crimes in 2012.  Kozak initially  retaliated against the federal judge who presided over the Kleensang trial by  filing a false lien against her for $19 million with the Boyd County, Nebraska,  clerks office.  After a federal grand jury indicted Kozak for filing the false  lien and for federal tax crimes, she filed five $18 million false liens against  federal officials at the Washington County, Nebraska, register of deeds office  while on pretrial release.   The evidence introduced at trial  and court filings also showed that since the late 1990s, Kozak has engaged in a  long series of fraudulent schemes to obstruct the internal revenue laws.  These  included placing her property in sham trusts, establishing a sham charitable  foundation, sending harassing correspondence to IRS employees and filing bogus  tax returns, trust returns, private-foundation returns and other false documents  with the IRS.  In 2008, she filed a tax return based on fictitious income and  tax withholdings on Form 1099-OID statements that claimed a refund of  $660,000.   This case was investigated by  special agents of the FBI and IRS-Criminal Investigation.  Trial Attorneys Brian  Bailey and Matthew Hoffman of the departments Tax Division prosecuted the  case. None