NoneThe CTAS program is a cornerstone of the Justice Departments partnership with sovereign tribal nations, said Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch. By providing tribes and villages with critical funding for everything from law enforcement equipment to programs for native youth and victims of crime, the CTAS program gives tribes the resources they need to address the particular challenges they face. I encourage tribes and villages to take advantage of this program, and I look forward to continuing our work with our tribal partners to build stronger and safer communities for all.The Department of Justice launched CTAS in FY 2010 in direct response to concerns raised by tribal leaders about the departments grant process that did not provide the flexibility tribes needed to address their criminal justice and public safety needs. The department designed this comprehensive approach to save time and resources and allow tribes and the department to gain a better understanding of the tribes overall public safety needs.The departments Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS), Office on Violence Against Women (OVW) and the Office of Justice Programs (OJP), specifically OJPs Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA), Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention (OJJDP) and Office for Victims of Crime (OVC) all award funding under CTAS. The funding can be used to enhance law enforcement, bolster adult and juvenile justice systems, prevent and control juvenile delinquency, serve native victims of crime and support other efforts to combat crime.Noneprior to submitting an application. The application deadline is 9:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time (EST), Feb. 28, 2017. Applicants are strongly urged to apply in advance of the deadline.For the FY 2017 CTAS, a tribe or tribal consortium will submit a single application and select from any or all of the nine competitive grant programs referred to as purpose areas. This approach allows the departments grant-making components to consider the totality of a tribal nations overall public safety needs. The nine purpose areas (PA) are:NoneTodays announcement is part of the departments ongoing initiative to increase engagement, coordination and action on public safety in tribal communities.