  The Justice Department announced today that it has entered into a comprehensive agreement with the Parish of St. Tammany, La., and the St. Tammany Parish Sheriff to correct conditions of confinement at the St. Tammany Parish Jail and to ensure that improvements made since the Departments investigation will be maintained. The St. Tammany Parish Jail is located in Covington, La., and houses approximately 1,000 adult male and female prisoners. The jail is staffed by approximately 225 sworn law enforcement officers and civilian employees.  The agreement outlines significant remedial measures to address deficiencies in correctional mental health care and suicide prevention. Under the terms of the agreement, St. Tammany will work to ensure that prisoners are safe and receive care and services necessary to meet their constitutional rights. The agreement underscores the Parishs obligation to protect prisoners the substantial risk of serious harm.  We commend Sheriff Jack Strain, St. Tammany Parish President Patricia Brister, and other St. Tammany officials for their willingness to work aggressively to address the problems identified during the course of our investigation, said Jocelyn Samuels, Acting Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division. Based on the productive relationship we have established to date, we expect to continue to work cooperatively with St. Tammany to improve conditions of confinement at this facility.  In April 2011, the Justice Department initiated its investigation of the St. Tammany Jail under the Civil Rights of Institutionalized Persons Act (CRIPA). The Department issued its findings in July 2012, concluding that certain conditions at St. Tammany violated prisoners constitutional rights to adequate mental health care, including adequate suicide prevention.  Todays agreement comprehensively addresses the department's findings through an in-depth focus on the systemic problems that caused the unconstitutional conditions at the jail. The agreement also builds on improvements made by St. Tammany during the departments investigation, most notably the removal of small booking cages that had been used for the confinement of suicidal prisoners and the construction of a specialized housing unit to manage and monitor prisoners in mental health crisis. The agreement requires:     None  The investigation of the St. Tammany Parish Jail was conducted by Corey M. Sanders, Trial Attorney in the Special Litigation Section of the Civil Rights Division.  Related Material:None