 None  The agreement, filed yesterday evening, which must be approved by the federal district court in Chicago, requires that by Jan. 15, 2013, the state will ensure expedited transmittal of ballots for the special primary election to UOCAVA voters who have requested them by that date. The agreement also requires that by Jan. 31, 2013, the state will resolve any candidate petition challenges and ensure expedited notice to UOCAVA voters of the final list of candidates for the special primary election. The voted ballots must be postmarked by Feb. 25, 2013, and received by March 6, 2013, to be counted in the special primary election.   The agreement also requires that by March 8, 2013, the state will ensure expedited transmittal of ballots for the April 9, 2013 special election to all UOCAVA voters who have requested them. Under Illinois law, the voted ballots must be postmarked by April 8, 2013, and received by April 23, 2013 to be counted in the special election.  In addition, for both the special primary election and the special election, the state will provide all UOCAVA voters the option of returning their marked ballots by email, fax or express mail at no expense to the voter.     This agreement reflects this departments continued and resolute commitment to ensure that members of our armed forces, their families and overseas citizens are offered a full and meaningful opportunity to vote in all federal elections, including special elections scheduled to fill vacated seats, said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division. I am pleased that we are able to reach this agreement with Illinois officials, which will ensure that these voters can fully participate in the states upcoming special primary election and special election.  The UOCAVA requires states to allow uniformed service voters, serving both overseas and within the United States, and their families and overseas citizens to register to vote and to vote absentee for all elections for federal office. In 2009, Congress enacted the MOVE Act, which made broad amendments to UOCAVA. Among those changes was a requirement that states transmit absentee ballots to voters covered under UOCAVA, by mail or electronically at the voters option, no later than 45 days before federal elections.  Under the terms of the agreement, the state will also provide detailed reports to the department concerning the transmission of ballots for the special primary election and special election. The state will also take actions as are necessary to assure that UOCAVA voters shall have a fair and reasonable opportunity to participate in future federal elections, including actions needed to fully remedy any potential UOCAVA violations arising from Illinois law governing the states special election calendar.None None