The Justice Department reached an agreement today with Cumberland Staffing Inc., doing business as AtWork Cumberland Staffing (ACS), to resolve the departments investigation into whether the company discriminated against work-authorized immigrants and naturalized U.S. citizens in violation of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA). ACS is a temporary staffing agency with an office located in Cookeville, Tennessee.The department initiated its investigation after a Tennessee resident notified the department of an ACS job posting that included a U.S. birth certificate requirement. The departments investigation found that between December 2015 and February 2016, ACSs Cookeville office created and published a job posting stating that applicants for machine operator positions at a client company must present a U.S. birth certificate, even though there was no legal authorization for such requirement. The discriminatory posting was published on several job search engine websites during this time period.The INAs anti-discrimination provision prohibits employers from discriminating in hiring, recruiting or referring for a fee based on a persons citizenship, immigration status or national origin. In the absence of a legal basis to do so (such as a law, regulation or government contract that requires U.S. citizenship restrictions), employers, recruiters and referrers for a fee may not limit job opportunities or otherwise impose barriers to obtaining employment based on an individuals citizenship, immigration status or national origin. By requiring a U.S. birth certificate  a document that only non-naturalized U.S. citizens possess  to be considered for an employment opportunity, ACSs job posting created a discriminatory barrier for work-authorized individuals, such as naturalized U.S. citizens, U.S. nationals, lawful permanent residents, asylees and refugees.Under the settlement agreement, ACS will pay a civil penalty, remove all specific document requirements from its job postings except where required by law, train staff on proper employment verification and reverification procedures and ensure that trained staff or legal counsel review future job advertisements.Staffing agencies, which are in the business of making employment opportunities available to job seekers, cannot create unlawful and discriminatory employment barriers, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta, head of the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division. The department commends ACS for its cooperation during the investigation and its willingness to address the situation.NoneNoneApplicants or employees who believe they have been subjected to different documentary requirements based on their citizenship, immigration status or national origin; or discrimination based on their citizenship, immigration status or national origin in hiring, firing or recruitment or referral, should contact OSCs worker hotline for assistance.None