A former deputy treasurer of Ohio has been extradited from Pakistan to the United States to serve a 15-year prison sentence for his role in a bribery and money laundering scheme involving the Ohio Treasurers Office.Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, First Assistant U.S. Attorney Mark T. DAlessandro of the Southern District of Ohio, Special Agent in Charge Angela L. Byers of the FBIs Cincinnati Division, Attorney General Mike DeWine of Ohio and U.S. Marshal Peter C. Tobin of the Southern District of Ohio made the announcement.Amer Ahmad, 40, of Chicago, pleaded guilty in December 2013 to federal program bribery and conspiracy to commit federal program bribery, honest services wire fraud and money laundering. Following his guilty plea, Ahmad fled the United States and was arrested by Pakistani authorities while attempting to illegally enter that country. He has remained in custody and the U.S. government requested his extradition. On Dec. 1, 2014, Ahmad was sentenced in abstentia by U.S. District Judge Michael H. Watson of the Southern District of Ohio to 15 years in prison and ordered to forfeit $3.2 million in illicit proceeds.A remand hearing has been scheduled for 10:00 a.m. on Friday, August 28, before U.S. District Judge Watson.According to admissions in connection with his guilty plea, from January 2009 through January 2011, Ahmad used his position as deputy treasurer to direct official state of Ohio business to securities broker Douglas E. Hampton in return for bribes. Ahmad and Chicago businessman Joseph Chiavaroli concealed the payments they received from Hampton by passing them through the accounts of their landscaping business. Hampton also funneled more than $123,000 to Mohammed Noure Alo, an attorney and lobbyist who was Ahmads close personal friend and business associate. Over the course of the scheme, Hampton paid in excess of $500,000 in bribes and received, in exchange, approximately $3.2 million in commissions for 360 securities trades on behalf of the Ohio Treasurers Office.In November 2014, Hampton and Alo were sentenced to 45 months and 48 months in prison, respectively, for their roles in the scheme. Chiavaroli was sentenced in December 2014 to 18 months in prison.The case was investigated by the FBIs Central Ohio Public Corruption Task Force, which includes special agents from the FBI and the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation. The U.S. Marshals Service joined the investigation after Ahmad fled the United States. The Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs provided significant assistance in this matter. The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Eric L. Gibson and Menaka Kalaskar of the Criminal Divisions Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Douglas W. Squires of the Southern District of Ohio.