  Attorney General Eric Holder announced today that President Obamas FY 2015 Budget proposal for the Department of Justice calls for $173 million in targeted investments for criminal justice reform efforts.  These investmentssuch as increased funding for state and local prisoner reentry initiativesare among the key highlights in the presidents overall $27.4 billion budget request for the Justice Department. The FY 2015 request, which represents a $122 million increase over the FY 2014 enacted level, supports a range of federal law enforcement priorities, as well as the criminal justice priorities of state, local and tribal law enforcement partners.None  The Presidents budget request seeks to put critical resources behind this effort. Specifically, in addition to funds routinely provided for federal prisoner reentry efforts, the FY 2015 request:None  Beyond criminal justice reform, the Department of Justices other key funding priorities include:None  In addition, the FY 2015 Presidents Budget proposes additional discretionary investments for the department as part of the Administrations Opportunity, Growth and Security Initiative. The initiative includes targeted investments for state and local justice assistance grants, with additional resources for the Comprehensive School Safety Program, COPS Hiring Program, and new youth investments; funding for the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) to continue the process of bringing on-line newly completed and acquired prisons; and funding for improved capacity for financial fraud enforcement.None  The departments mission includes upholding the civil and constitutional rights of all Americans, particularly the most vulnerable members of our society. Accomplishing this requires necessary resources both to investigate and to litigate. The department maintains substantial responsibilities with respect to enforcing the nations civil rights laws and protecting vulnerable populations. The FY 2015 budget will support the departments vigorous enforcement of federal civil rights laws  including those pertaining to human trafficking, hate crimes, police misconduct, fair housing, fair lending, disability rights and voting. As such, the departments FY 2015 budget requests $273 million to help meet the nations civil rights challenges. The request includes $7.6 million in program increases for the Civil Rights Division and Community Relations Service.  For more information, view the Civil Rights Fact Sheet at www.justice.gov/jmd/2015factsheets/.  NATIONAL SECURITY  Defending our nations security from both internal and external threats remains the departments highest priority. The FY 2015 budget request provides a total of $4 billion to maintain critical counterterrorism and counterintelligence programs, and sustains recent increases for intelligence gathering and surveillance capabilities.  The Administration supports critical national security programs within the department, including those led by the FBI and the National Security Division (NSD). In FY 2013, the FBI dedicated 4,500 agents to investigate more than 18,000 national security cases. NSD has continued to carry out its primary functions to prevent acts of terrorism and espionage in the United States and to facilitate the collection of information regarding the activities of foreign agents and powers.  In FY 2015, the department is investing an additional $15 million to fund the annual costs of the FBIs new Terrorist Explosive Device Analytical Center (TEDAC) at Redstone Arsenal in Huntsville, Ala. TEDAC is a forensic and technical laboratory dedicated to the mitigation and prevention of improvised explosive device attacks in the United States and abroad. It has provided critical assistance to domestic and international cases, including last years Boston Marathon bombing.  For more information, view the National Security Fact Sheet at www.justice.gov/jmd/2015factsheets/.  GUN SAFETY  Gun violence has touched every state, county, city and town in America. In 2013 the President introduced the Now is the Time initiative, which laid out a comprehensive plan to reduce gun violence and save lives. The department is working to implement a number of these actions and requests a total of $1.1 billion in FY 2015 to address violent gun crimes, including $182 million to sustain the new investments provided in FY 2014.  Specifically, the request provides $35 million in new resources in support of the presidents plan to ensure that those who are not eligible to purchase or possess guns are prevented from doing so. This includes $13 million for the FBI to maintain improvements made in FY 2014 to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) aimed at addressing the increasing volume of firearm background checks. We are also taking a thorough look at our federal laws and our enforcement priorities to ensure that we are doing everything possible at the federal level to keep firearms away from traffickers and others prohibited by law from possessing firearms. To this end, $22 million is also included for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) to sustain critical firearms enforcement efforts funded in FY 2014.  And while most of the departments efforts will be focused on keeping guns out of the wrong hands, we also want to help those on the ground prevent and mitigate violent situations when they do occur. To this end, the grant program requests a total of $147 million including $55 million to incentivize states to provide criminal history and mental health records to the NICS; $75 million to continue the Comprehensive School Safety program, which provides critical resources for research and for pilot programs to augment school safety personnel and to determine the effectiveness of various school safety measures; $2 million to encourage the development of innovative gun safety technology; and $15 million for the VALOR Initiative, including training for active shooter situations.  For more information, view Gun Safety Fact Sheet at www.justice.gov/jmd/2015factsheets/.  CYBERSECURITY  Investigating cybercrime and protecting our nations critical network infrastructure is a top priority of the department in an era when cyber-attacks and crimes are increasingly common, sophisticated, and dangerous. The FY 2015 budget request provides a total of $722 million for the departments cyber enforcement efforts and maintains recent increases for the National Security Divisions (NSD) prosecutorial efforts and the FBIs Next Generation Cyber Initiative, which enhanced capabilities to combat cyber threats from individuals, organized groups and rogue actors. The request also includes an increase of $3 million for the Criminal Division to enhance its investigative and prosecutorial capabilities; and $5 million to provide grants related to cybercrime and intellectual property enforcement.  The department has a unique and critical role in cyber security that emphasizes domestic mitigation of threats and involves countering these threats by investigating and prosecuting intrusion cases, gathering intelligence and providing legal and policy support to other departments. The department is also responsible for establishing effective internal network defense and serving as a model for other departments and agencies.  We are committed to carrying out our role consistent with the Administrations Executive Order 13636 on Improving Critical Infrastructure Cyber Security, which emphasizes intelligence and information sharing as well as the preservation of privacy, data confidentiality and civil liberties. As part of this effort, the department continues to maintain and strengthen its cyber security environment to counter cyber threats, including insider threats, and to ensure personnel have unimpeded access to the IT systems, networks and data necessary to achieve their missions.  For more information, view the Cyber Security Fact Sheet at www.justice.gov/jmd/2015factsheets/.  MUTUAL LEGAL ASSISTANCE TREATY (MLAT) REFORMNone  These resources are critical to supporting the Presidents National Security Strategy, which recognizes the centrality of international mutual cooperation in criminal justice and counterterrorism matters, by building the new framework for international cooperation envisioned by that strategy.  For more information, view the Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty Fact Sheet at www.justice.gov/jmd/2015factsheets/.  FINANCIAL FRAUD  Investigating and prosecuting financial fraud continues to be a priority for the Obama Administration. The FY 2015 budget request provides a total of $681 million for financial fraud enforcement and continues efforts to strengthen the departments ability to pursue large-scale financial fraud investigations in order to ensure that Americans, their investments and our financial markets are protected. The Administrations Opportunity, Growth and Security Initiative includes additional resources for the departments critical economic fraud enforcement efforts focused on financial institutions and the mortgage industry.  Ongoing efforts by the Presidents Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force (FFETF) are included in the departments request. Since its inception in FY 2010, FFETF has facilitated increased investigations and prosecution of financial fraud relating to the financial crisis and economic recovery efforts. This includes securities and commodities fraud, investment scams and mortgage foreclosure schemes and a broad range of financial crimes, including cases being investigated and brought by the FFETFs Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities Working Group.  For more information, view the Financial Fraud Fact Sheet at www.justice.gov/jmd/2015factsheets/.  IMMIGRATION  The department maintains substantial responsibilities with respect to immigration, including enforcement, detention, judicial functions, administrative hearings and litigation. The departments Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR) maintains a nationwide presence overseeing the immigration court and appeals process. Combined with the Civil Divisions Office of Immigration Litigation, the department has a wide and important role in immigration enforcement.   EOIR receives cases directly from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) enforcement personnel, and EOIRs caseload is increasing at unsustainable levels. For example, EOIRs immigration court caseload has continued to outpace department resources, increasing by 56 percent, from 229,000 to 358,000, between FY 2009 and FY 2013.  The FY 2015 budget request includes a $23 million investment to support immigration courts. The budget supports an additional 35 Immigration Judge Teams and 15 Board of Immigration Appeals attorneys. This will allow EOIR to address caseload increases emanating from DHS programs. The additional funding will also enable EOIR to expand a pilot program initially funded in FY 2014 that provides counsel to vulnerable populations, such as unaccompanied alien children, and to expand the Legal Orientation Program that improves efficiencies in immigration court proceedings for detained aliens.  For more information, view the Immigration Fact Sheet at www.justice.gov/jmd/2015factsheets/.  PRISONS AND DETENTION  The department continues to prioritize the maintenance of secure, controlled detention and prison facilities, as well as investment in programs that can reduce recidivism. The FY 2015 budget request provides $8.5 billion for prisons and detention. Of this amount, $6.9 billion is requested for the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) and $1.6 billion is for the Federal Prisoner Detention (FPD) appropriation. As part of the Opportunity, Growth and Security Initiative, the FY 2015 request also includes targeted investments to reduce prison overcrowding by providing the Bureau of Prisons resources to bring on-line newly completed or acquired prisons.  Additionally, the budget request includes funding to support the Attorney General Holders Smart on Crime Initiative, which is intended to promote fundamental reforms to the criminal justice system that will ensure the fair enforcement of federal laws, improve public safety, reduce recidivism and successfully prepare inmates for their reentry into society. Included are funds to sustain the investments made in FY 2014 for BOPs reentry programs including the Residential Drug Abuse Program, Residential Reentry Centers and reentry-specific education programs.  For more information, view the Prisons and Detention Fact Sheet at www.justice.gov/jmd/2015factsheets/.  STATE, LOCAL AND TRIBAL LAW ENFORCEMENT  In total, the FY 2015 budget requests $3 billion in mandatory and discretionary funds for state, local and tribal law enforcement assistance. These funds will allow the department to continue to support our state, local and tribal partners who fight violent crime, combat violence against women and support victim programs. The FY 2015 request will bolster the departments efforts to ensure that federal grant funding flows to evidence-based purposes and helps to advance knowledge of what works in state and local criminal justice.None  The request includes $274 million for Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS), which supports an increase of $71 million increase for COPS hiring and Tribal Law Enforcement programs. These resources will fund officers and thereby support the efforts of state, local and tribal law enforcement agencies in meeting the challenge of keeping their communities safe.  For more information, view the State, Local and Tribal Law Enforcement Fact Sheet at www.justice.gov/jmd/2015factsheets/