  WASHINGTON  Roberto Cittadini of Bellevue, Wash., pleaded guilty today to filing a false tax return, the Justice Department and Internal Revenue Service (IRS) announced. Cittadini appeared today before Magistrate Judge Mary Alice Theiler in Seattle and accepted responsibility for concealing nearly $2 million in Swiss bank accounts. According to court documents and statements made in court, Cittadini, a retired sales manager for Boeing, failed to report income from bank accounts under his control at UBS AG in Switzerland on his individual income tax returns from 2001 through 2003. Additionally, Cittadini failed to file a Report of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts (F-BAR) for each of these years.None  Magistrate Judge Theiler scheduled sentencing for Jan. 8, 2010. Cittadini faces a maximum sentence of three years in prison and a maximum fine of $250,000. Additionally, Cittadini agreed to pay a civil F-BAR penalty based on 50 percent of the highest account balance from 2001 to 2007.None  "Todays guilty plea in Washington state follows guilty pleas in New Jersey, California and Florida," said John A DiCicco, Acting Assistant Attorney General of the Justice Departments Tax Division. "Individuals all over the country who are hiding income and assets in offshore accounts would be well-advised to promptly come in and come clean before the government learns about their accounts through other channels."  "This is a time of reckoning for those who thought they had found a safe haven for cheating," said United States Attorney Jenny A. Durkan. "People who avoid paying their fair share hurt all of us who follow the law and conscientiously pay our taxes."  "The IRS continues its pursuit of those hiding their income and assets in offshore accounts," said IRS Chief Criminal Investigation, Eileen Mayer. "People must meet their filing requirements and pay the taxes they owe, or they face potential criminal prosecution. We encourage people who have been hiding money offshore to come forward by Oct. 15 to take advantage of the special provisions in our voluntary disclosure effort."NoneNone  Acting Assistant Attorney General DiCicco and U.S. Attorney Durkan commended the IRS agents who investigated the case, as well as Trial Attorney Michael J. Watling of the Tax Division who is prosecuting the case.  United States citizens who have an interest in, or signature or other authority over, a financial account in a foreign country with assets in excess of $10,000 are required to disclose the existence of such account on Schedule B, Part III of their individual income tax return. Additionally, American citizens much file an F-BAR with the U.S. Treasury, disclosing any financial account in a foreign country with assets in excess of $10,000 for which they have a financial interest in or signature authority, or other authority over.None