NoneFollowing the e-Gold indictment, several similar but smaller systems and exchangers were indicted or closed themselves down to evade law enforcement detection. According to publicly filed charging documents, an executive of one of those businesses, Arthur Budovsky, then set out to create Liberty Reserve, an improved centralized virtual currency variation allegedly designed to evade U.S. law enforcement. Among other things, Liberty Reserve operated offshore it was based in Costa Rica--and purportedly recommended that its customers use money exchangers located in countries without significant governmental money-laundering oversight or regulation. Moreover, Budovsky, the principal founder of Liberty Reserve, was so committed to avoiding the reach of U.S. law that, according to the indictment, in 2011, he formally renounced his U.S. citizenship and became a Costa Rican citizen in order to avoid facing justice in the United States .Despite Budovskys alleged efforts, earlier this year, the Department indicted Liberty Reserve and its executives, including Budovsky, for running a $6 billion money laundering operation. In a coordinated action, the Department of the Treasury identified Liberty Reserve as a financial institution of primary money laundering concern under Section 311 of the USA PATRIOT Act, effectively cutting it off from the U.S. financial system.NoneJust last month, the Department took action against one of the most popular online black markets, Silk Road. Allegedly operated by a U.S. citizen living in California at the time of his arrest, Silk Road accepted bitcoins exclusively as a payment mechanism on its site. The Departments complaint alleges that, in less than three years, Silk Road served as a venue for over 100,000 buyers to purchase hundreds of kilograms of illegal drugs and other illicit goods from several thousand drug dealers and other criminal vendors. The site also purportedly laundered the proceeds of these transactions, amounting to hundreds of millions of dollars in bitcoins. In addition to arresting the sites operator and shutting down the service, the Department to date has seized over 170 thousand bitcoins, valued as of Friday, November 15, 2013, at over $70 million.A separate indictment charges Silk Roads operator with drug distribution conspiracy, attempted witness murder, and using interstate commerce facilities in the commission of murder-for-hire. With regard to the murder-related charges, the indictment alleges that the Silk Road operator paid an undercover federal agent to murder one of the operators employees.The cases I just described illustrate not only Department successes in combating illicit use of virtual currency, but also many of the challenges investigators face when they encounter these systems, some of which may ultimately require additional legal or regulatory tools.Virtual currency allows users to send money across the globe without dealing with a traditional financial institution. While this feature provides several benefits for legitimate customers, it can significantly complicate law enforcement efforts to follow the money.Virtual currency systems have a global reach and clientele. Virtual currency businesses can cater to U.S. clientele while operating on the other side of the world. Investigations into illicit virtual currency businesses therefore often require considerable cooperation from international partners. The Liberty Reserve investigation and takedown, for example, involved coordinated law enforcement action in 17 countries.The international nature of the transactions poses an additional challenge where the overseas regulatory regime treats virtual currency differently or, as is true in some cases, fails to cover it at all. While this challenge may diminish with the Financial Action Task Forces recent guidance addressing the need for all countries to develop a risk-based approach to new payment products and services, incongruent regulatory regimes will likely remain a challenge when dealing with virtual currency services overseas.Among the most significant challenges the Department faces in dealing with virtual currency is the difficulty in obtaining customer records. Because decentralized systems lack any sort of administering authority to collect user information or receive legal process, investigators must rely on information collected by other sources, such as exchangers. Even if the target used a centralized system or exchanger, however, accurate customer records may still be difficult to obtain, or may not exist at all. Illicit users are typically attracted to systems with lax anti-money laundering and know-your-customer controls. These services often attempt to evade U.S. action by operating out of countries that have poor regulatory oversight and are less willing to cooperate with U.S. law enforcement. Even if the system at issue operates in a country with effective regulation and a cooperative relationship with the United States, the legal process for obtaining foreign records is relatively slow when compared to the near-instantaneous speed at which the virtual currency user can send the funds to another jurisdiction.A final challenge arises from the link between virtual currency and encryption. Decentralized virtual currencies typically rely on an encryption algorithm, rather than a central authority, to administer the currency. These encryption-based currencies, also known as cryptocurrencies, lack a central administering authority that might otherwise possess valuable evidence. In addition, users of these currencies often encrypt their digital wallets, complicating our efforts to seize and forfeit criminal proceeds.The Department recognizes that virtual currencys ability to facilitate the global movement of funds by a wide array of illicit actors necessitates a comprehensive and collaborative approach with our domestic and international partners. To promote such coordination, the Department is an active participant in the Virtual Currency Emerging Threats Working Group (VCET). VCET was founded by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) in early 2012 to mitigate the cross-programmatic threats arising from illicit actors use of virtual currency systems. The group leverages the collective subject matter expertise of its members to address issues arising from illicit actors use of virtual currency, and deconflicts and shares information and concerns. VCET members represent an array of U.S. Government agencies, including, within the Department, the FBI, the Drug Enforcement Administration, multiple U.S. Attorneys Offices, and the Criminal Divisions Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section and Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section.The Department contributes to several additional interagency groups concerning virtual currencies and emerging payment systems, including the New Payment Methods Ad Hoc Working Group, a subgroup of the Terrorist Finance Working Group, led by the State Department. The FBI specifically has issued numerous intelligence products related to virtual currency, many of which were coauthored with other members of the U.S. Intelligence Community.The Department is committed to working with our regulatory partners to ensure appropriate coordination on regulatory issues related to virtual currency. The Department participated in meetings and discussions with FinCEN regarding the July 2011 Final Rule on Money Services Businesses and its applicability to virtual currencies, as well as the related March 18, 2013, FinCEN guidance. The Department regards FinCENs regulation of many virtual currency services as money transmitters, as well as the resulting applicability of anti-money laundering and know-your-customer requirements under the Bank Secrecy Act, as crucial tools in preventing malicious actors from exploiting virtual currency systems in furtherance of illicit activity.NoneThe Department anticipates that virtual currency will continue to evolve and grow in popularity. That growth inevitably will be accompanied by an increase in illicit transactions, which makes it critical that virtual currency services understand their legal obligations and requirements. The Department is encouraged by the increasing prominence of legitimate virtual currency services that are attempting to comply with U.S. law. While a number of services have registered at the federal level, many are still struggling with implementing appropriate anti-money laundering, know-your-customer, and customer due diligence programs, as well as complying with state-level regulations and licensing requirements. As members of the U.S. financial community, virtual currency services can and must safeguard themselves from exploitation by criminals and terrorists by implementing legally required anti-money laundering and know-your-customer controls.As the Administrations Strategy to Combat Transnational Organized Crime recognizes, transnational organized crime networks are increasingly involved in cybercrime, and can imperil consumers faith in emerging digital systems. We must also pay close attention to the critical role of facilitators who cross both the licit and illicit worlds and provide services to legitimate customers and criminals alike.The Department recognizes that malicious actors are often resourceful, and even legitimate virtual currency services can become unwitting conduits for illicit transactions when these actors are able to defeat or circumvent anti-money laundering controls. Outreach to these systems, much as the Department conducts with the formal financial sector, is an important tool in combating the exploitation of the systems for criminal and terrorist purposes. Because centralized payment systems and exchangers often interact with the traditional financial sector and hold bank accounts at major financial institutions, the range of such Department outreach extends to the financial services community at large, complementing the outreach and training efforts of FinCEN, the primary BSA regulator, and the Department of the Treasury. Department of Justice personnel routinely provide trainings to the private sector, as well as to domestic and international law enforcement and intelligence personnel, and specifically address virtual currency.NoneChairman Carper and Ranking Member Coburn, I thank you for this opportunity to discuss the Departments work on virtual currency.I look forward to any questions that you may have.