The Justice Department today announced that it has filed a lawsuit against John and Susan Klosterman alleging that female tenants in the Klostermans residential rental properties in Cincinnati, Ohio, were subjected to sexual harassment, coercion, intimidation, and threats in violation of the federal Fair Housing Act. Each of the defendants owns or manages properties where the illegal conduct occurred.Todays lawsuit alleges that John Klosterman sexually harassed female residents at the rental properties from at least 2013 through the present. According to the complaint, he engaged in harassment that included, among other things, making unwelcome sexual advances and comments, engaging in unwanted sexual touching, offering to reduce rent and overlooking or excusing late or unpaid rent in exchange for sex, evicting or threatening to evict female tenants who objected to or refused sexual advances, and entering the homes of female tenants without their consent. The lawsuit further alleges that Susan Klosterman is liable under the Fair Housing Act because John Klosterman managed the rental properties on her behalf when he engaged in the harassment, coercion, intimidation, and threats.No woman should have to endure sexual harassment in order to remain in her home, said Acting Assistant Attorney General John Gore of the Civil Rights Division. Sexual harassment in housing is unacceptable and illegal, and landlords should be on notice that the Justice Department will continue to vigorously enforce the Fair Housing Act to combat this type of discrimination and to obtain relief for victims.Fair housing is fundamental, said U.S. Attorney Benjamin Glassman. No one should have to experience a landlords pervasive sexual harassment. Thats not only wrong, but also illegal under federal law. This office is committed to vigorously enforcing the protections guaranteed by the Fair Housing Act.NoneThe Justice Department has filed or settled eight sexual harassment cases since Jan. 20, 2017, and has recovered over $1.6 million for victims of sexual harassment in housing.Todays lawsuit seeks monetary damages to compensate the victims, civil penalties and a court order barring future discrimination. The complaint contains allegations of unlawful conduct. The allegations must be proven in federal court.NoneNone