NoneSchlesselman of West Helena, Ark., admitted to conspiring to murder dozens of people, with a focus on murdering African-Americans. He further acknowledged that he intended to culminate his killing spree by assassinating then-Senator Barack Obama, who was a presidential candidate at the time."Despite great civil rights progress, hate-fueled violence remains all too common in our country, as illustrated by this unthinkable conspiracy," said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division. "Tragedy was averted thanks to the capable work of the Crockett County Sheriffs Department and their willingness to work with the ATF, the Secret Service and the FBI.""Crimes committed against individuals because of their race will not be tolerated," said Lawrence J. Laurenzi, U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Tennessee. "I commend the work of the investigative agencies in thwarting what could have been a series of tragic events."Schlesselman admitted that beginning on or about Sept. 1, 2008, and continuing until Oct. 22, 2008, he conspired to transport firearms and ammunition in interstate commerce, steal firearms from a licensed firearms dealer and transport in interstate commerce a short-barreled shotgun, all for the purpose of committing murders, robberies and burglaries.Schlesselman further acknowledged that on Oct. 20, 2008, he unlawfully transported an unregistered short barreled shotgun and a .357 magnum caliber handgun across state lines for the purpose of committing felonies, including racially targeted murders.Schlesselman also admitted that on Oct. 23, 2008, he threatened to kill and inflict bodily harm on President Barack Obama, who was a presidential candidate at the time.The case was investigated by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; the U.S. Secret Service; the FBI; and the Crockett County Sheriffs Office. The case is being prosecuted by U.S. Attorney Larry Laurenzi, Assistant U.S. Attorney James Powell and Civil Rights Division Trial Attorney Jonathan Skrmetti.