  A Saddle River, N.J., man pleaded guilty today to failure to file a Report of Foreign Bank or Financial Accounts (F-BAR. Juergen Homann appeared today before Judge Stanley R. Chesler in Newark, N.J., and accepted responsibility for concealing more than $5 million in Swiss bank accounts.None  According to court documents and statements made in court, in 2005, Homann, with the assistance of Rickenbach and a Swiss banker, conducted a sham loan by transferring $5 million from an account in the name ELM Finance Limited to a second Hong Kong entity in order to obtain financing for Homanns U.S. business without alerting authorities that he controlled the assets in the ELM at UBS. Further, Rickenbach and a Swiss banker persuaded the defendant not to seek out and enter into the IRSs Voluntary Disclosure program.  Judge Chesler scheduled sentencing for Jan. 6, 2010. Homann faces a maximum sentence of five years in prison and a maximum fine of $250,000 or twice the amount of financial gain to the defendant or loss to the IRS. Additionally, Homann has agreed to pay a civil F-BAR penalty based on 50% of the highest balance contained in the UBS account.  "As the IRS voluntary disclosure program enters its final few weeks, those who are hiding income and assets in offshore accounts would be well-advised to promptly come in and come clean before the government learns about their accounts through other channels," said John A DiCicco, Acting Assistant Attorney General of the Justice Departments Tax Division. "Those who think they can stay below the radar face a real risk of prosecution and jail if convicted, and they will still owe the taxes due, together with interest and civil penalties."  For those who are not participating in the Voluntary Disclosure Program, we are working very closely with the Tax Division and the IRS to investigate and prosecute cases where individuals have sought to hide assets and income offshore," said Acting U.S. Attorney for the District of New Jersey, Ralph J. Marra, Jr.  "The IRS is serious about pursuing people with hidden offshore accounts, and we are stepping up our international efforts," said IRS Commissioner Doug Shulman. "People should make sure they meet their filing requirements. Failure to do so can carry serious consequences. We encourage people who have been hiding money offshore to come forward by Oct. 15 to take advantage of the special provisions in our voluntary disclosure effort."NoneNone  Acting Assistant Attorney General DiCicco and U.S. Attorney Marra commended the IRS agents who investigated the case, as Trial Attorney Michael P. BenAry of the Tax Division and Assistant U.S. Attorney Marc-Philip Ferzan who are prosecuting the case.  United States citizens who have an interest in, or signature or other authority over, a financial account in a foreign country with assets in excess of $10,000 are required to disclose the existence of such account on Schedule B, Part III of their individual income tax return. Additionally, U.S. citizens much file an F-Bar with the United States Treasury, disclosing any financial account in a foreign country with assets in excess of $10,000 for which they have a financial interest in or signature authority, or other authority over.None