Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch announced today the appointments of Peter F. Neronha, U.S. Attorney for the District of Rhode Island, and John Huber, U.S. Attorney for the District of Utah, to the Attorney Generals Advisory Committee (AGAC), effective immediately.The Attorney Generals Advisory Committee plays a crucial role in shaping the Justice Departments approach to fighting crime, countering national security threats and securing equal justice under the law and I am pleased to welcome two new members to its ranks, said Attorney General Lynch. U.S. Attorneys John Huber and Peter Neronha have spent their careers tackling some of the most high-profile and difficult challenges we face, from political corruption and terrorism to gun violence and organized crime. I have come to know them both as outstanding law enforcement officers and devoted public servants and I look forward to drawing upon their insight and expertise in the months to come as we continue our work to create a stronger, safer, and more equal nation for all Americans.U.S. Attorney Neronha will fill the seat vacated by former U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Ohio, Steven Dettelbach, who resigned on Feb. 5.U.S. Attorney Huber will fill the seat vacated by former U.S. Attorney for the District of Kansas, Barry Grissom, who resigned on April 15.U.S. Attorney Neronha was nominated by President Barack Obama on July 31, 2009, and confirmed by the U.S. Senate on Sept. 15, 2009, as the U.S. Attorney for the District of Rhode Island. In 2002, U.S. Attorney Neronha joined the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Rhode Island. As an Assistant U.S. Attorney, he prosecuted criminal cases involving political corruption, white collar crime, drug and firearm offenses. When he joined the U.S. Attorneys Office, he was named coordinator of the Districts Project Safe Neighborhoods, a Department of Justice initiative against gun crimes. Prior to being named U.S. Attorney, he was Chief of the Districts Organized Crime Strike Force. U.S. Attorney Neronha previously served on the AGAC during 2009-2011.U.S. Attorney Huber was nominated by President Barack Obama on Feb. 4, 2015, and confirmed by the U.S. Senate on June 10, 2015, as U.S. Attorney for Utah. Prior to confirmation as the U.S. Attorney, U.S. Attorney Huber prosecuted a number of high profile federal cases and coordinated task forces that focused on violent crime and counter-terrorism. He also served as chief of the National Security Section in the U.S. Attorneys Office before being asked to serve as the Executive Assistant U.S. Attorney, a member of the offices executive management team.The AGAC was created in 1973 to serve as the voice of the U.S. Attorneys and to advise the attorney general on policy, management and operational issues impacting the offices of the U.S. Attorneys.