    WASHINGTON      Late yesterday, the Justice Department sent to Congress a package of legislative proposalsthat will significantly enhance the departments ability toprotect the rights of members of the military and their families.   The package contains three titles, with proposed amendments to each of the three servicemember civil rights statutes that the Civil Rights Division enforces.   Each of these laws was enacted by Congress with broad, bipartisan support, and the proposals offered by the department will make the protections they provide even stronger.      Our men and women in uniform and their families make sacrifices every single day for this country, and we have an obligation to take every possible measure to lessen burdens in their lives, said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division. These legislative proposals will give the department the tools to better protect the rights of servicemembers in the housing, lending, voting and employment contexts. We believe that this bill, if enacted, will improve the lives of those who have served so honorably to protect our freedom, our families and our nation. None None     To better address the delays in sending absentee ballots to military and overseas voters that occurred in the 2010 election cycle, and improve implementation of the MOVE Acts new procedures, the Justice Departments proposed amendments would, among other things, require states to submit pre-election reports on the status of ballot transmission to military and overseas voters; eliminate the waiver provision in favor of a uniform, nationwide standard that equally protects all military and overseas voters; require states that miss a deadline to mail ballots by express delivery; authorize civil penalties; and establish an express private right of action for individuals aggrieved under the act.       Title III would amend the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act (USERRA).USERRA entitles servicemembers to return to their civilian employment upon completion of their military service with the seniority, status and rate of pay that they would have obtained had they remained continuously employed by their civilian employer. In ad  dition, USERRA protects servicemembers from discrimination in the workplace based on their military service or affiliation. The Civil Rights Division has ramped up enforcement of USERRA in the last two and half years, filing 33 cases, which exceeds the number of cases filed in the previous four years.   The departments proposals would further strengthen protection of servicemembers employment rights by, for example, authorizing the department to investigate and bring suit to stop a pattern or practice of USERRA violations, and allowing the United States to serve as a named plaintiff in all suits filed by the department, as opposed to only those suits filed against state employers.   None