  WASHINGTON  A retired lieutenant colonel in the U.S. Army was sentenced yesterday to 41 months in prison for engaging in bribery related to his work as a contracting officers representative in Kuwait from 2004 to 2006, announced Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Justice Departments Criminal Division.  Derrick L. Shoemake, 50, of Moreno Valley, Calif., was sentenced by U.S. District Court Judge Dolly M. Gee in the Central District of California. In addition to his prison term, Shoemake was sentenced to two years of supervised release and was ordered to pay $181,900 in restitution and forfeit $68,100.  Shoemake pleaded guilty in June 2011 to two counts of bribery. According to court documents, Shoemake was deployed to Camp Arifjan, Kuwait, as a contracting officers representative in charge of coordinating and accepting delivery of bottled water in support of our troops in Iraq. While serving in Kuwait, Shoemake agreed to assist a contractor with his delivery of bottled water. In return, the contractor paid Shoemake a total of approximately $215,000, most of which was delivered to Shoemakes designee in Los Angeles. Shoemake received an additional $35,000 from a second contractor for his perceived influence over the award of bottled water contracts in Afghanistan. All told, Shoemake admitted receiving approximately $250,000 from these two government contractors in 2005 and 2006.  This case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Richard B. Evans of the Criminal Divisions Public Integrity Section and Trial Attorney Mark W. Pletcher of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section. The case is being investigated by the Army Criminal Investigations Division, the Defense Criminal Investigative Service, the FBI, the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction, the Internal Revenue Service, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement at the Department of Homeland Security and members of the National Procurement Fraud Task Force and the International Contract Corruption Task Force (ICCTF).