Najee C. Moore, 23, of Milwaukee, pleaded guilty today to five counts of conspiracy to engage in sex trafficking and one count of use of a facility in interstate commerce in aid of racketeering in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Wisconsin. According to documents filed in court, from 2007 through 2013, Moore engaged in multiple conspiracies knowing or in reckless disregard of the fact that means of force, fraud or coercion would be used to cause both minor and adult victims to engage in commercial sex acts in Milwaukee and elsewhere. Moore also used an internet website to promote his illegal enterprise. Bringing human traffickers to justice is a top priority of the Department of Justice, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Jocelyn Samuels for the departments Civil Rights Division. The Civil Rights Division is committed to the vigorous prosecution of those who prey upon, abuse, and exploit others for their own financial benefit. Here in Eastern Wisconsin and throughout the nation, our focused and effective teams of investigators and prosecutorsfederal, state, local and tribalcontinue to identify, pursue and bring to justice those people who engage in this type of invidious criminal conduct, said U.S. Attorney James L. Santelle for the Eastern District of Wisconsin. Todays plea reflects that unyielding commitment to address commercial sex trafficking in a manner that assists and supports the vulnerable victims of it and that responds to the legitimate community outrage over this destructive conduct. Child prostitution remains a persistent threat to children in Wisconsin and across America, said FBI Special Agent in Charge of the Milwaukee Field Office Robert J. Shields. This investigation serves as a reminder that the predators that commit these crimes can reside anywhere. The FBI and its law enforcement partners remain committed to pursuing and stopping these subjects where ever they operate." This case is another example of how successful law enforcement can be when resources are combined to focus on those who engage in criminal behavior, said Wisconsin Department of Justice  Division of Criminal Investigation (DCI) Administrator David Matthews. Having received a tip, law enforcement at the state, local and federal levels  as part of the Human Trafficking Task Force  worked this case jointly to share information and support investigative efforts, all of which resulted in the arrest and successful prosecution of Najee Moore. I thank all of those involved for their contributions toward bringing justice in this case. Im proud of the work of the human trafficking investigators assigned to our Sensitive Crimes Division, said Milwaukee Police Chief Edward Flynn. Their partnered efforts with federal officials continues to result in the successful apprehension and prosecution of dangerous sexual predators. This prosecution is the result of the joint investigation by the Human Trafficking Task Force for the Eastern District of Wisconsin and was the work of cooperative efforts between enforcement agencies including the FBI, Milwaukee Police Department, Wisconsin Department of Justice - DCI, Homeland Security Investigations the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of Wisconsin and the Civil Rights Division. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Karine Moreno-Taxman of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of Wisconsin and Trial Attorney Daniel H. Weiss of the Civil Rights Division.