  EMH Regional Medical Center (EMH) has agreed to pay the United States $3,863,857 and North Ohio Heart Center Inc. (NOHC) has agreed to pay the United States $541,870 to settle allegations that they submitted false claims to Medicare, the Justice Department announced today.      EMH is a non-profit community hospital system located in Lorain County, Ohio.   During the relevant time period, NOHC was an independent physician group located in Lorain County that practiced at EMH.   The settlement resolves allegations that between 2001 and 2006 EMH and NOHC performed unnecessary cardiac procedures on Medicare patients.   Specifically, the United States alleged that EMH and NOHC performed angioplasty and stent placement procedures on patients who had heart disease but whose blood vessels were not sufficiently occluded to require the particular procedures at issue. None None   This matter was initiated by the filing of a whistleblower complaint under the False Claims Act (FCA).   Under the FCA, private citizens can bring suit for false claims on behalf of the United States and receive a share of the recovery obtained by the government.   The whistleblower in this matter, Kenny Loughner, was the former manager of EMHs catheterization and electrophysiology laboratory.   As a result of the settlement, Mr. Loughner will receive $660,859 of the United States recovery.   This resolution is part of the governments emphasis on combating health care fraud and another step for the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT) initiative, which was announced by Attorney General Eric Holder and Kathleen Sebelius, Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services in May 2009.   The partnership between the two departments has focused efforts to reduce and prevent Medicare and Medicaid financial fraud through enhanced cooperation. One of the most powerful tools in that effort is the False Claims Act, which the Justice Department has used to recover more than $10.1 billion since January 2009 in cases involving fraud against federal health care programs. The Justice Departments total recoveries in False Claims Act cases since January 2009 are over $13.8 billion.   The investigation was jointly handled by the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Northern District of Ohio, the Justice Departments Civil Division, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services Cleveland Field Office and the FBI.   The claims resolved by this settlement are allegations only, and there has been no determination of liability. None