    The Justice Department announced that it has reached an agreement with the city of Wheatland, Calif., that, if approved by the court, will allow it to bail out from its status as a covered jurisdiction under the special provisions of the Voting Rights Act, and thereby exempt the city from the preclearance requirements of Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act. Wheatland is located in Yuba County, Calif., which is a jurisdiction subject to Section 5. The agreement is in the form of a consent decree filed today in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia.      Under Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act, certain covered jurisdictions, determined according to Section 4 of the act, are required to seek preclearance for any changes in voting qualifications, standards, practices or procedures from the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, or from the U.S. Attorney General, prior to their implementation. Section 4 of the Act provides that a covered jurisdiction may seek to bail out, or remove itself from such coverage, and therefore be exempted from the preclearance requirements, by seeking a declaratory judgment before a three-judge panel in U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. A bailout judgment can be issued only if the court determines that the jurisdiction meets certain eligibility requirements for bailout contained in the statute, including a 10-year record of nondiscrimination in voting-related actions. The act also provides that the attorney general can consent to entry of a judgment of bailout only if, based upon investigation, the attorney general is satisfied that the jurisdiction meets the eligibility requirements.     The city of Wheatland filed its bailout action in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia on Jan. 14, 2013. City officials had contacted the attorney general prior to filing its action, indicating that the City was interested in seeking a bailout. The city provided the Justice Department with substantial information, and the department conducted an investigation to determine the citys eligibility. Based on that investigation, the department is satisfied that the city of Wheatland meets the Voting Rights Acts requirements for bailout.      In the Voting Rights Act, Congress provided a means for a covered jurisdiction to be exempted from the preclearance requirements of Section 5 if the jurisdiction meets the specific eligibility requirements of the Act, said Matthew Colangelo, Deputy Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division. I am pleased that city officials worked cooperatively with the department in providing the information we requested and in resolving this matter in the way envisioned by the Voting Rights Act.     The consent decree details the legal and factual basis for a bailout determination and, if approved, will grant the citys request. The court will retain jurisdiction of the action for 10 years and can reopen the action upon the motion of the attorney general or any aggrieved person alleging conduct by the city that would have originally precluded a bailout if it had occurred during the 10 year period preceding entry of the consent decree.  None