NoneSamson was sentenced to a term of 12 months in prison followed by a year of supervised release and Ignacio to a term of nine months followed by a year of supervised release.NoneThese crewmembers egregiously violated U.S. and international pollution laws, obstructed justice and spoiled the marine waters upon which our planet and its marine life depend, said Assistant Attorney General John C. Cruden of the Department of Justices Environment and Natural Resources Division. This case shows that polluting the ocean with oily waste and sludge will land you in jail, and that we will aggressively prosecute these serious crimes.Our office was pleased to partner with the Department of Justices Environment and Natural Resources Division in this significant case, said U.S. Attorney John Stuart Bruce for the Eastern District of North Carolina. We will continue to vigorously enforce federal laws designed to prevent the pollution of the worlds oceans.Several lower-level engineering crewmembers testified at trial that Samson regularly ordered, with Ignacios knowledge and approval, the pumping of oily wastes into the ocean over a period of months. On at least two occasions, Samson ordered the connection of a bypass hose, or magic pipe, to pump tons of thick sludge directly overboard. Coast Guard inspectors and laboratory testing confirmed the presence of heavy oils in overboard discharge piping.When the vessel arrived at the Port of Wilmington, the engineers ordered subordinates to lie to Coast Guard inspectors and to cover up evidence. Chief Engineer Ignacio presented inspectors with a doctored oil record book, in which false accountings of the ships production and disposal of oily wastes were recorded.The Coast Guard applauds the efforts of the Department of Justice and all parties involved in investigating this case, said Coast Guard Rear Admiral Meredith Austin, commander, 5th Coast Guard District in Portsmouth, Virginia. As an agency charged with the stewardship of the environment, we remain dedicated to detecting and preventing threats to the well-being of our nation's waters and marine resources.NoneThis case was investigated by the U.S. Coast Guard Sector North Carolina, the Coast Guard Investigative Service and U.S. Coast Guard District Five. Civil Chief Norman Acker and Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael Anderson for the Eastern District of North Carolina provided additional expertise and assistance with the pretrial phase of the case. The attorneys prosecuting the case were Senior Trial Attorney Kenneth Nelson and Trial Attorney Brendan Selby, of the Department of Justices Environmental Crimes Section and Banu Rangarajan of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of North Carolina.