  WASHINGTON  The Justice Department announced today that the city of Columbus, Ind., has agreed to pay $24,000 to settle a lawsuit alleging that the city had discriminated against a group home for persons recovering from drug and alcohol addiction, in violation of the federal Fair Housing Act. The city will also adopt new anti-discrimination policies and procedures.  "Experience has shown that people recovering from addictions to alcohol and drugs can benefit when given the opportunity to live in supportive residences. The Fair Housing Act prohibits local governments from using zoning codes to deny them this opportunity," said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division. "The Justice Department will continue to vigorously protect the civil rights of all persons with disabilities across the country."  "Enforcement of the Fair Housing Act in this manner protects the civil rights of persons with disabilities," said Timothy M. Morrison, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Indiana. "These actions encourage local governmental units to end discriminatory policies."  "Recovery programs help the individual and the community. This settlement enables all parties to move forward based on fact, not stereotype," stated HUD Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing John Trasvia.  Under the terms of the proposed consent decree, which must still be approved by Judge Larry J. McKinney of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Indiana in Indianapolis, the city of Columbus will:  If approved, the settlement will resolve a lawsuit filed by the Justice Department on Sept. 30, 2009, that alleged that the city violated the Fair Housing Act when, on July 25, 2007, it denied a request from ACTS for a land use variance to operate Bethesda House as a group home for up to 11 persons recovering from drug or alcohol addiction. ACTS filed a complaint with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), which referred the matter to the Justice Department.  Fighting illegal housing discrimination is a top priority of the Justice Department. The federal Fair Housing Act prohibits discrimination in housing on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, familial status, national origin and disability.None