  WASHINGTON - A federal court in Kansas City, Mo, has permanently barred Missouri lawyer A. Blair Stover Jr. from promoting a variety of improper tax schemes, the Justice Department announced today. In entering the civil injunction order against Stover, U.S. District Judge Ortrie D. Smith found that Stover for years promoted schemes in which business owners use sham companies and sham transactions to improperly reduce their reported income tax liabilities. The court said that "very conservative estimates" of the tax losses to the government from Stovers conduct were around $100 million, and noted that an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) revenue agent estimated the total tax loss to be $300 million.  The courts decision focused on three schemes, two of which Stover promoted while working in the Kansas City office of Grant Thornton LLP, a national accounting firm where he was formerly a senior tax manager and principal. Stover left that firm in 2001, and has been an equity partner in the Kruse Mennillo LLP, accounting firm since then.  All three tax arrangements "have a common thread," the court said: "they are premised on a business owner forming a separate business denominated as a management company. The operating company  the initial, pre-existing business  retains the new company to perform management services."  The court cited numerous examples of Stovers customers using sham management companies and sham transactions to reduce their reported tax liabilities. According to the court, the "end result" of a Stover-designed arrangement used by a St. Joseph, Mo., construction firm was "the creation of a series of phantom deductions that allowed [the firm] to avoid reporting $350,000 in income, all by paying for illusory management services to paper entities that had no economic substance."  In an another example, the court noted that Stovers arrangements to help a doctor reduce his taxes were "nothing more than backdating in order to avoid the effects" of a law that prohibited the scheme after a certain date.  In response to one of Stovers asserted defenses in the case, the court said that his "reasoning is so specious that he should have known it was wrong." The court later added that Stover "has been quite adept at hiding his involvement" in schemes he promoted "in an effort to develop what he believes is plausible deniability. Ultimately, his denials are implausible."  The court acknowledged "the clients left in defendants wake." Stovers clients "were provided with inaccurate information about the risks they were undertaking. All had to pay other professionals. . . to undo" the tax arrangements that Stover promoted. The court noted that Stover "describes himself as a rainmaker," and found "that practically everything he has done in that capacity has been improper."None  The court ordered that Stover must in the future provide the IRS in advance with a detailed plans of any financial or tax arrangement he intends to promote and must further notify the IRS of any business entity that is formed at his direction. He must also notify the IRS of any new clients with whom he consults or who retain him for tax advice.  Acting Assistant Attorney General John DiCicco thanked Justice Department trial attorneys Allyson Baker, Daniel Applegate and Russell Edelstein, who handled the case, as well as Janice Mallon of the IRSs Small Business/Self Employed Division, who was the primary revenue agent conducting the investigation.NoneNone