None The sentencing was announced by Acting Assistant Attorney General for National Security Mary B. McCord, U.S. Attorney Robert L. Capers for the Eastern District of New York, Assistant Director-in-Charge William F. Sweeney, Jr. of the FBIs New York Field Office and Commissioner James P. ONeill of the New York City Police Department (NYPD). "With this sentence, Justin Kaliebe is being held accountable for his attempt to travel overseas to join Al-Qaeda in the Arab Peninsula and engage in violent jihad," said Acting Assistant Attorney General McCord. "One of our highest priorities is to protect our country by identifying, disrupting and holding accountable those who provide or attempt to provide material support to designated foreign terrorist organizations. This case is a sobering reminder that the call to violent jihad can reach deep into our local communities. Even when given the opportunity to abandon his plan to join al-Qaeda, this defendant made clear his intentions to commit himself fully to terrorism, stated U.S. Attorney Capers. If not for the vigilance and commitment of our dedicated investigators, he might well have succeeded in empowering a dangerous enemy. Mr. Capers expressed his sincere appreciation to all the members of the FBIs Joint Terrorism Task Force (JTTF) and the NYPD Intelligence Division for their work on the investigation. Providing material support to terrorists is a serious crime that should have serious consequences. Todays sentencing of Justin Kaliebe shows just that. Kaliebe set out to provide material support to Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula in 2013 by attempting to travel to Yemen, after making plans months in advance. He didnt get past JFK thanks to the hard work of the FBIs Joint Terrorism Task Force and the NYPD Intelligence Division, stated Assistant Director-in-Charge Sweeney. None According to the court filings, including sentencing memoranda, and evidence introduced during a sentencing hearing, Kaliebe attempted to travel from the U.S. to Yemen for the purpose of joining AQAP and waging violent jihad. During numerous meetings and recorded conversations and email correspondence with undercover law enforcement officers, Kaliebe explained that he had been searching for an opportunity to travel abroad and fight jihad for two years  long before Kaliebe first approached the undercover officers about his plans to join a terrorist group. Kaliebe repeatedly expressed his desire to travel to Yemen in order to join AQAP and to help carry out its violent extremist agenda.  None According to a June 4, 2012, recorded conversation, which was admitted into evidence during the sentencing hearing, Kaliebe observed that the crime that they would charge people like us with was conspiracy to kill, maim and kidnap in foreign countries, a reference to a federal criminal statute that has previously been used to charge other individuals who departed or attempted to depart the U.S. in order to fight jihad abroad. Later, during that same conversation, Kaliebe stated that, once he arrived in Yemen, he expected to fight the Yemeni army and those who are fighting against the Sharia of Allah . . . whether its the U.S. drones or the, their puppets, in the Yemeni army . . . or, who knows, if American agents or whatever, U.S. Special Forces . . . who they got over there. When asked if he was afraid to die, Kaliebe responded I wanna . . . . Its what anyone would want, any believer would want. During another recorded conversation described in the governments sentencing memorandum, which took place on July 9, 2012, Kaliebe stated that he had been inspired by several sheiks, including Sheik Usama, who showed how he could bring an entire nation to its knees. Beginning in approximately July 2012, Kaliebe saved money to finance his travel to Yemen, which he then used to apply for and purchase a U.S. passport, and to purchase an airline ticket to Oman, from where he intended to travel by land to Yemen. During a recorded meeting on July 30, 2012, Kaliebe stated that he was saving money as a means to go to Yemen to fight jihad. On Dec. 26, 2012, Kaliebe sent an email in which he swore his loyalty to the leaders of AQAP and al-Qaeda, respectively, writing, I pledge my loyalty, allegiance and fidelity to the Mujahedeen of Al-Qaa'idah in the Arabian Peninsula and its leaders, Shaykh Abu Baseer Nasir Al-Wuhayshi and Shaykh Ayman Al-Zawahiri, hafidhahum Allah! May Allah accept this from me and may he allow me to fight in his cause til the day that I leave this dunya [this world]. On Jan. 8, 2013, Kaliebe reaffirmed his commitment to jihad, telling an NYPD Intelligence Division undercover officer, in a recorded conversation, which was also admitted into evidence during the sentencing hearing, that he understood theres a way out, but for me, the only way out is [martyrdom]. Additionally, Kaliebe paid homage to several terrorist leaders, telling the undercover law enforcement officer that: [My] standard is Abu Dujana. [M]y standard is Abu Musab Al-Zarqawi. My standard is Sheik Anwar Al-Awlaki and Sheik Usama, both who bore witness to the truth with their blood. Finally, Kaliebe stated, Oh Allah, please allow me, please allow me and my brotherto fight jihad in your cause oh Allah. Oh Allah, please give us one of the two victories, victory on the ground or victory through [martyrdom.] On Jan. 21, 2013, Kaliebes efforts culminated in an attempt to board a flight to Muscat, Oman at John F. Kennedy Airport in Queens, New York. He was arrested at the airport by members of the FBIs JTTF and the NYPD Intelligence Division. On Feb. 8, 2013, Kaliebe waived indictment and pleaded guilty to attempting to provide material support to AQAP and to attempting to provide material support to terrorists. Kaliebes co-conspirator, Marcos Alonso Zea, who also attempted to travel to Yemen to join AQAP. Once Zeas own attempt failed, he assisted Kaliebes efforts to join the terrorist group. Zea was previously convicted and sentenced to 25 years in prison by the Honorable Sandra J. Feuerstein. The governments case is being prosecuted jointly by the National Security and Cybercrime Section, and the Long Island Criminal Section of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of New York. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Seth D. DuCharme and John J. Durham for the Eastern District of New York are in charge of the prosecution, with assistance provided by Trial Attorney Kelli Andrews of the National Security Divisions Counterterrorism Section. 