None   Bazaarvoices unlawful acquisition of PowerReviews has deprived customers of the benefits of competition for 20 months, said Assistant Attorney General Bill Baer in charge of the Department of Justices Antitrust Division. The departments proposed remedy will restore the competitive landscape by enabling another company to replicate the critical competitive role that PowerReviews would be playing today had it not been illegally acquired by Bazaarvoice.   Since the merger closed, Bazaarvoice has not invested in research and development for the PowerReviews platform, and it has migrated customers away from the PowerReviews platform to its own product, the department said. The departments proposed remedy, if approved by the court, requires Bazaarvoice to sell all of PowerReviews assets and contains other provisions to compensate for the deterioration of PowerReviews business. Under the departments proposal, Bazaarvoice would be required to provide syndication services to the divestiture buyer, allowing the buyer to build its customer base and develop its own syndication network.   Bazaarvoice would also be required to waive trade-secret restrictions for any of its employees who are hired by the divestiture buyer, enabling the buyer to leverage Bazaarvoices post-merger research and development efforts.   None   On Jan. 10, 2013, the department filed a civil antitrust lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California against Bazaarvoice.   The department alleged that Bazaarvoices June 2012 acquisition of PowerReviews eliminated the companys only significant rival, in violation of the antitrust laws.      Bazaarvoices acquisition of PowerReviews was not required to be reported under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, which requires companies to notify and provide information to the department and the Federal Trade Commission before consummating certain acquisitions. The department began its investigation shortly after the transaction closed.  The departments trial against Bazaarvoice, which was overseen by Judge William Orrick, began on Sept. 23, 2013.   The trial lasted three weeks, with closing arguments taking place on Oct. 15, 2013.   On Jan. 8, 2014, the court found that Bazaarvoice violated Section 7 of the Clayton Act by acquiring its primary rival, PowerReviews.   Bazaarvoices opposition to the departments proposed remedy must be filed with the court by March 5, 2014. If the court determines that a hearing is necessary, it will be held on April 2, 2014. 