None  EPA is committed to protecting communities from the pollution problems that matter most, including reducing air pollution from the largest sources of emissions, said Cynthia Giles, assistant administrator for EPAs Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance. The pollution reductions and the significant investment in local environmental projects under this agreement will ensure that the people of Wisconsin and neighboring states have cleaner, healthier air.  This resolution of the Clean Air Act claims against WPS not only ensures that the damage to our environment from past, excessive emissions will be addressed but that residents throughout the region will benefit from the latest technology, resulting in significant future reductions in air pollutants, said James L. Santelle, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Wisconsin. The Justice Department and the EPA are strongly committed to promote innovative, alternative, and renewable sources of energy that also ensure that our next generations will breathe air that does not compromise their health. Todays settlement promotes both goalsand accomplishes environmental justice for all Americans.  The settlement, which covers the utilitys two power plants  the Pulliam plant in Green Bay, Wis., and the Weston plant in Rothschild, Wis.  requires WPS to install new pollution control technology on one of its largest units, to continuously operate the new and existing pollution controls, and to comply with stringent emission rates and annual tonnage limitations. The settlement also requires WPS to permanently retire, refuel or repower four additional coal-fired units at the Pulliam and Weston plants. The actions taken by WPS to comply with this settlement will result in annual reductions of sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx), and particulate matter emissions by approximately 15,000 tons from 2010 levels. This settlement covers all eight coal-fired boilers at WPSs two power plants.None  This is the 25th settlement secured as part of EPAs national enforcement initiative to control harmful emissions from power plants under the Clean Air Acts New Source Review requirements. The total combined sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides emission reductions secured from these settlements will exceed 2 million tons each year once all the required pollution controls have been installed and implemented.  The settlement was lodged in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Wisconsin, and is subject to a 30-day public comment period and final court approval. It will be available for viewing at www.justice.gov/enrd/Consent_Decrees.html.  More information about the settlement: www.epa.gov/enforcement/air/cases/wps.html  More information about EPAs enforcement initiative: www.epa.gov/compliance/data/planning/initiatives/2011airpollution.html