Assistant Attorney General John C. Cruden, head of the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division, announced the appointment of Thomas A. Mariani Jr.to serve as Chief of the divisions Environmental Enforcement Section, effective immediately. Mr. Mariani fills the vacancy left with the departure of W. Benjamin Fisherow in April, who retired as section chief after more than 30 years of public service.NoneNoneNoneIn addition to his environmental enforcement work, Mr. Mariani has served in assignments at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Columbia.  He earned his J.D. from the Law School at Columbia University in the city of New York and his undergraduate degree from Hamilton College, in Clinton, New York.About the Environmental Enforcement SectionThe section is one of the largest litigating sections in the Justice Department and includes about one-third of the Environment Divisions lawyers. The section is responsible for bringing civil judicial actions under most federal laws enacted to protect public health and the environment from the adverse effects of pollution, such as the Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, Safe Drinking Water Act, Oil Pollution Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and the Superfund law (CERCLA). The section carries out this work on behalf of and in collaboration with many federal agencies, including EPA, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the Department of the Interior and the U.S. Coast Guard.The breadth of the sections practice is extensive and challenging. It includes cases of national scope, such as cases against multiple members of an identified industry (e.g., petroleum refineries, or glass or cement manufacturers), to obtain broad compliance with the nations environmental laws. Through its enforcement of the Superfund law, the section seeks to compel responsible parties either to clean up hazardous waste sites or to reimburse the United States for the cost of cleanup, thereby ensuring that they and not the public, bear the burden of paying for cleanup. The Superfund law is also a basis of the sections actions to recover damages for injury to natural resources that are under the trusteeship of federal agencies.