  A Miami title agent and former mortgage broker was sentenced today for her role in a reverse mortgage loan fraud scheme.  Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Wifredo A. Ferrer of the Southern District of Florida, and Special Agent in Charge Lester Fernandez of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Office of Inspector General (HUD-OIG) made the announcement after sentencing by Senior Judge Richard W. Goldberg, sitting by designation in the Southern District of Florida.  Yesenia Pouparina, aka Yesenia Campos, 42, was sentenced today to 46 months in prison, followed by three years of supervised release, and was ordered to pay $207,810 in restitution. Pouparina was convicted in February 2013 of four counts of wire fraud and one count of mail fraud.  According to court documents and evidence presented at trial, Pouparina, a licensed title agent in the state of Florida, sought to obtain a reverse mortgage loan worth more than $400,000 on her own property in the name of her mother, an individual who failed to meet the requirements of the Home Equity Conversion Mortgage (HECM) program. She submitted a false loan application and doctored records in support of that application, misrepresenting her mothers eligibility to participate in the program. Pouparina acted as the title agent for the loan and disbursed the loan proceeds directly to her own personal bank accounts. Pouparina also enriched herself by collecting fees generated by the loan, and further profited by using the loan proceeds in connection with her business as a hard-money lender in other mortgage deals.  Following Pouparinas conviction on the fraud counts, the jury also found forfeitable three bank accounts controlled by the defendant, which were seized by the government during the course of the investigation.  This case was investigated by HUD-OIG. Trial Attorney Sandra L. Moser of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section prosecuted the case with assistance from the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of Florida.None