  WASHINGTON  A former Police of Puerto Rico officer was sentenced today to 181 months in prison for her role in providing armed security for a drug transaction, announced Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Rosa E. Rodriguez-Velez of the District of Puerto Rico, and Special Agent in Charge Joseph S. Campbell of the FBIs San Juan Field Office.  Yamil Navedo Ramirez, 39, was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge Juan M. Perez-Gimenez in the District of Puerto Rico.  In May 2012, a federal jury in San Juan found Navedo Ramirez guilty of one count of attempting to possess with the intent to distribute more than five kilograms of cocaine and possession of a firearm in furtherance of a drug transaction. The jury acquitted her of one count of conspiracy to possess with the intent to distribute more than five kilograms of cocaine.  According to the evidence presented in court, Navedo Ramirez provided security on April 14, 2010, for what she believed was an illegal cocaine deal. In fact, the purported drug transaction was part of an undercover FBI operation. On that day, Navedo Ramirez provided armed protection for the deal and escorted the buyer in and out of the transaction.  Navedo Ramirez was charged in a superseding indictment unsealed on Oct. 28, 2010, along with 89 law enforcement officers in Puerto Rico and 44 other individuals charged as part of the FBI undercover operation known as Guard Shack.  In return for the security she provided, Navedo Ramirez received a cash payment of $2,000. Judge Perez Gimenez ordered the defendant to forfeit the $2,000 she received in exchange for providing security for the drug transaction.  The case was prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Kevin Driscoll and Monique Abrishami of the Criminal Divisions Public Integrity Section. The case was investigated by the FBI. The U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Puerto Rico also participated in the investigation and prosecution of this case.