  Following a comprehensive investigation, the Justice Department announced today its findings that the Alamance County Sheriffs Office (ACSO) in North Carolina, under the leadership of Sheriff Terry S. Johnson, engages in a pattern or practice of misconduct that violates the Constitution and federal law.   The department conducted its investigation, which it opened on June 2, 2010, pursuant to the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 and Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Title VI).   The Justice Department finds reasonable cause to believe that ACSO engages in a pattern or practice of discriminatory policing against Latinos in violation of the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, the Fourth Amendment, the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act and Title VI.   ACSOs discriminatory policing activities include:   Taken together, these practices undermine ACSOs ability to serve and protect Alamance Countys Latino residents and the community at large.      The Alamance County Sheriffs Offices egregious pattern of racial profiling violates the Constitution and federal laws, creates distrust between the police and the community and inhibits the reporting of crime and cooperation in criminal investigations, said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division.   Constitutional policing and effective law enforcement go hand-in-hand. We hope to resolve the concerns outlined in our findings by working collaboratively with ACSO, but we will not hesitate to take appropriate legal action if ACSO chooses a different course.   The Justice Departments thorough and independent investigation included an in-depth review of ACSO policies, procedures, training materials, and data on traffic stops, arrests, citations, vehicle checkpoints and other documentary evidence.   Department personnel also conducted interviews with more than 125 individuals, including Alamance County residents and current and former ACSO employees.      Addressing these findings and creating sustainable reforms will require ACSO to commit to long term structural, cultural and institutional change.   In particular, ACSO must develop and implement new policies, procedures and training in effective and constitutional policing.   Any reform efforts must also include systems of accountability to ensure that ACSO has eliminated unlawful bias from its decision making at all levels.   The department will seek to obtain a court enforceable, comprehensive, written agreement remedying the violations and incorporating these reforms by attempting to work with ACSO officials.    NoneLetter of Findings