  A member of the Playboy Bloods street gang was sentenced today to life in prison for the retaliation murder of a man in November 2004 and the armed robbery of a Henderson, Nev., casino in 2002, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney Daniel G. Bogden of the District of Nevada.  Jacorey Taylor, aka Mo-B, 30, who was convicted by a jury in May 2013, was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Robert C. Jones. Taylor was convicted of engaging in a racketeering (RICO) conspiracy, committing violent crimes in aid of racketeering activity, using a firearm during a crime of violence, participating in a drug conspiracy, and possessing crack cocaine with the intent to distribute. He is the ninth gang member to be convicted out of 10 charged in a RICO indictment filed in 2008. The remaining defendant, Markette Tillman, 31, is awaiting trial.  Taylor and co-defendants Reginald Dunlap, aka Bowlie, and Steven Booth, aka Stevie-P, were convicted of participating in the murder of Billy Ray Thomas, who was shot multiple times in the back on the morning of Nov. 1, 2004, as he worked on a car in the parking lot of the Pecos Terrace Apartments while waiting to take his girlfriend to work. The defendants murdered Thomas due to their mistaken belief that Thomas was a member of a rival street gang. According to evidence presented at trial, two car loads of Playboy Bloods members and associates, including Taylor, Dunlap, Booth and others, drove through known Crip neighborhoods searching for rivals to retaliate against for the murder of Quaza Burns, a leader of the Playboy Bloods. The victim, Billy Ray Thomas, had no gang affiliation.  Evidence produced at trial also showed that on March 21, 2002, Taylor, armed with an AR-15 style assault rifle, and another man armed with an handgun entered the Klondike Casino in Henderson, forced their way behind the casino cage, and robbed the casino of over $7,000 in currency.  Dunlap and Booth pleaded guilty to racketeering conspiracy charges during Taylors trial and were each sentenced in April 2013 to 20 years in prison. There is no parole in the federal criminal justice system.  According to court documents and evidence produced at trial, the Bloods are a nationally known criminal street gang whose members engage in drug trafficking and acts of violence. The Playboy Bloods is a local set or affiliate of the Bloods, with local control and operation within the Las Vegas metropolitan area. Other Bloods sets within the Las Vegas metropolitan area include the Piru Bloods and the West Coast Bloods. A subset of the Playboy Bloods is the Full Throttle Clique, a group made up of Playboy Bloods members who engage in acts of violence, including murder. According to evidence presented at trial, Taylor, Dunlap, and Booth were all members of the Full Throttle Clique of the Playboy Bloods. Taylor, along with other Playboy Bloods enterprise members, operated drug houses in the Sherman Gardens Annex (also known as The Jets) and the surrounding areas.  Eight other defendants who have been convicted and sentenced, as follows:  Steven Booth, aka Stevie-P, 27, pleaded guilty to RICO conspiracy and was sentenced to 20 years in prison on April 10, 2013  Reginald Dunlap, aka Bowlie, 30, pleaded guilty to RICO conspiracy and was sentenced to 20 years in prison on April 9, 2013  Demichael Burks, aka Mikey P, 29, pleaded guilty to RICO conspiracy and was sentenced to 6 years in prison on Dec. 3, 2010  Anthony Mabry, aka Akim Slim, 43, pleaded guilty to RICO conspiracy and was sentenced to 14 years in prison on Oct. 20, 2010  Delvin Ward, aka D-Luv, 37, pleaded guilty to RICO conspiracy and was sentenced to 11 years in prison on Sept. 17, 2010  Terrence Thomas, aka Seven, 40, pleaded guilty to drug conspiracy and was sentenced to 10 years in prison on June 16, 2010  Sebastian Wigg, aka Rock, 36, pleaded guilty to drug conspiracy and was sentenced to five years in prison on March 29, 2010  Fred Nix, aka June P, 36, pleaded guilty to drug conspiracy and was sentenced to five years in prison on March 29, 2010  The cases were investigated by the FBIs Las Vegas Safe Streets Gang Task Force, which includes officers from the North Las Vegas Police Department and Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department, and are being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Nicholas D. Dickinson, and Phillip N. Smith, Jr., and Kevin L. Rosenberg, Trial Attorney with the U.S. Department of Justice Organized Crime and Gang Section.