  WASHINGTONKentucky Utilities (KU), a coal-fired electric utility, has agreed to pay a $1.4 million civil penalty and spend approximately $135 million on pollution controls to resolve violations of the Clean Air Act, the Justice Department and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency announced today.  KU has agreed to install new pollution control equipment on its largest generating unit that will reducecombined emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides by more than 31,000 tons per year, which is 90 percent below the 2007 emission levels. KU will also install controls to reduce particulate matter emissions by approximately 1,000 tons per year.  The company will spend approximately $3 million on projects to benefit the environment and mitigate the adverse effects of the alleged violations including:  KU has agreed to surrender the excess nitrogen oxide and sulfur dioxide allowances it will have after installing the pollution controls. Coal-fired power plants are allowed to emit sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides as allowances, which are granted under federal or state acid rain permits. Once surrendered, these allowances cannot be used again, thus removing the emissions from the environment permanently.  This settlement will result in the substantial reduction of harmful emissions, and will benefit air quality in Kentucky and downwind areas, said John C. Cruden, Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Department's Environment and Natural Resources Division. The Justice Department will spare no effort in its pursuit of emission reductions from power plants across the country to achieve the benefits envisioned by the Clean Air Act.  Todays settlement sets the most stringent limit for nitrogen oxide emissions ever imposed in a federal settlement with a coal-fired power plant, said Catherine McCabe, Acting Assistant Administrator for EPAs Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance. EPA is committed to ensuring our nation's coal-fired power plants comply with the Clean Air Act. Pollutants from these facilities can cause severe respiratory problems, contribute to childhood asthma, and contribute to smog and haze.None  Coal-fired plants release sulfur dioxides and nitrogen oxides, which are a primary cause of acid rain that harms trees and lakes and impairs visibility. These pollutants cause severe respiratory problems, contribute to childhood asthma, and contribute to smog and haze. Air pollution from power plants can drift significant distances downwind and degrade air quality in nearby areas.  Kentucky Utilities, based in Lexington, Ky., generates and distributes electricity to more than 500,000 customers in Kentucky and Virginia. It owns and operates five coal-fired electrical generating stations in Kentucky. The settlement applies to the largest boiler unit at the E.W. Brown Generating Station located on Lake Herrington in Mercer County, Ky.None