WASHINGTON The U.S. Trustee Program (USTP) has successfully resolved litigation against Countrywide Home Loans Inc. in its ongoing efforts to protect homeowners in bankruptcy, Clifford J. White III, Director of the Executive Office for U.S. Trustees, announced today.Over a two-year period, the USTP worked closely with the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to carry out parallel investigations relating to Countrywides improper conduct in servicing home loans.Today, the FTC announced a consent order with Countrywide and its affiliate BAC Home Loans Servicing LP that resolves an FTC complaint and the USTPs litigation in bankruptcy courts. Homeowners in Bankruptcy Protected "Homeowners who file for bankruptcy protection and obey the rules are entitled to a fresh start," stated Director White. "Todays agreement among the FTC, USTP, and Countrywide helps to ensure that debtors receive the relief to which they are legally entitled. The agreement will compensate homeowners in bankruptcy who were victimized by Countrywides improper business practices, and will help prevent future harm to homeowners in dire financial straits who legitimately seek bankruptcy protection."The Bankruptcy Code imposes duties on debtors to completely and accurately report on their financial condition. Similarly, it imposes a duty on creditors to file complete and accurate claims regarding the amount of money owed to them. In pending litigation, the USTP alleged Countrywide failed to satisfy its obligations as a creditor and thereby harmed not only homeowners in chapter 13 bankruptcy, but other creditors as well.USTP litigation against Countrywide focused on three types of practices: inflating the mortgage claims Countrywide made against homeowners in chapter 13 bankruptcy; failing to properly credit homeowners with payments made; and failing to notify homeowners of extra charges added to the mortgage bill. These improper accounting and billing practices can be catastrophic to debtors, who may emerge from bankruptcy only to end up losing the family home, and unfair to other creditors, who may receive less than their fair share from the bankruptcy estate because the mortgage company claimed more than it was entitled to receive. Mortgage Servicing Abuses Addressed The USTP launched investigations of Countrywide, as well as other mortgage lenders, after receiving complaints of chronic accounting irregularities by mortgage servicing companies. Overall, in FY 2009, U.S. Trustees took more than 9,000 formal and informal consumer protection actions, including a large number of actions against mortgage servicing companies. On the Countrywide matter, the USTP worked closely with the FTC in fashioning the consent order announced today.Under the consent order: Pending Bankruptcy Actions Resolved NoneNoneThe USTP is the component of the Justice Department that protects the integrity of the bankruptcy system by overseeing case administration and litigating to enforce the bankruptcy laws. The USTP has 21 regions and 95 field offices.