  The Department of Justice has  forfeited more than $480 million in corruption proceeds hidden in bank accounts  around the world by former Nigerian dictator Sani Abacha and his  co-conspirators.   Assistant Attorney General  Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and Assistant  Director in Charge Valerie Parlave of the FBIs Washington Field Office made the  announcement after a judgment was entered on Aug. 6, 2014, by U.S. District  Judge John D. Bates of the District of Columbia.   Rather than serve his county, General Abacha used his public  office in Nigeria to loot millions of dollars, engaging in brazen acts of  kleptocracy, said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell.  With this judgment, we  have forfeited $480 million in corruption proceeds that can be used for the  benefit of the Nigerian people.  Through the Kleptocracy Asset Recovery  Initiative, the Department of Justices Criminal Division denies kleptocrats  like Abacha the fruits of their crimes, and protects the U.S. financial system  from money laundering.  In coordination with our partners in Jersey, France and  the United Kingdom, we are helping to end this chapter of corruption and  flagrant abuse of office.   We remain steadfast in protecting the U.S. banking  system from becoming a tool for dictators to hide their criminal proceeds, said  Assistant Director in Charge Parlave.  This court order bolsters the FBIs  ability to combat international corruption and money laundering by seizing the  assets of those involved.  I want to thank the special agents, financial  analysts and prosecutors whose hard work over the years resulted in todays  announcement.   The forfeited assets represent  the proceeds of corruption during and after the military regime of General  Abacha, who assumed the office of the president of the Federal Republic of  Nigeria through a military coup on Nov. 17, 1993, and held that position until  his death on June 8, 1998.  The complaint alleges that General Abacha, his son  Mohammed Sani Abacha, their associate Abubakar Atiku Bagudu and others  embezzled, misappropriated and extorted billions of dollars from the government  of Nigeria and others, then laundered their criminal proceeds through U.S.  financial institutions and the purchase of bonds backed by the United States.   The judgment is the result of  a civil forfeiture complaint the department filed in November 2013 against more  than $625 million in the largest kleptocracy forfeiture action brought in the  departments history.  The forfeiture judgment includes approximately $303  million in two bank accounts in the Bailiwick of Jersey, $144 million in two  bank accounts in France, and three bank accounts in the United Kingdom and  Ireland with an expected value of at least $27 million.  The ultimate  disposition of the funds will follow the execution of the judgment in each of  these jurisdictions.  Claims to an additional approximately $148 million in four  investment portfolios in the United Kingdom are pending.   As alleged in the complaint,  General Abacha and others systematically embezzled billions of dollars in public  funds from the Central Bank of Nigeria on the false pretense that the funds were  necessary for national security.  The conspirators withdrew the funds in cash  and then moved the money overseas through U.S. financial institutions.  General  Abacha and his finance minister also allegedly caused the government of Nigeria  to purchase Nigerian government bonds at vastly inflated prices from a company  controlled by Bagudu and Mohammed Abacha, generating an illegal windfall of more  than $282 million.  In addition, General Abacha and his associates allegedly  extorted more than $11 million from a French company and its Nigerian affiliate  in connection with payments on government contracts.  Funds involved in each of  these schemes were allegedly laundered through the United States. None   The investigation was  conducted by the FBI.  The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Elizabeth  Aloi and Assistant Deputy Chief Daniel Claman of the Criminal Divisions Asset  Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section, with substantial support from the  Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs.  The department appreciates  the extensive assistance provided by the governments of Jersey, France and the  United Kingdom in this investigation.