WASHINGTON, D.C.  Attorney General Eric Holders National Task Force on Children Exposed to Violence convened its first of four public hearings to gather expert and community testimony on the epidemic of childrens exposure to violence. Recent research shows that more than 60 percent of American children have been exposed to crime, abuse and violence  many in their own homes. Ten percent of children in the United States have suffered some form of abuse or neglect and one in 16 has been victimized sexually.The task force will hold three additional hearings this year in Albuquerque, N.M., Miami and Detroit. The task force will identify promising practices, programming and community strategies used to prevent and respond to childrens exposure to violence and will also issue a final report to the attorney general presenting its findings and comprehensive policy recommendations. The report will serve as a blueprint for preventing childrens exposure to violence and for reducing the negative effects experienced by children exposed to violence across the United States. As a former judge and U.S. attorney, and now as the Attorney General and the father of three teenagers, protecting and empowering our children is both a personal and professional commitment," said Attorney General Holder. I have made protecting the most vulnerable among us  including our children  a core priority of the Justice Department and this task force brings together a wealth of experience and talent to help us find ways to improve our response to the growing problem of children exposed to violence.None Unprecedented numbers of children are exposed to violence, both as victims and witnesses, and they bring their experiences, feelings, learned behaviors and attitudes into their schools and communities, said Torre. This isnt just a family issue; its also a community and national public health issue. The Defending Childhood Task Force has the welfare of our most vulnerable children at its center, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to make a significant contribution to solving this urgent problem. Children who experience violence are more likely to abuse drugs and alcohol, fail in school, suffer from mental health problems and engage in delinquent and criminal behavior, said Listenbee. The attorney generals task force creates a tremendous opportunity for our nation to stop this epidemic and give our children the safety and well-being they deserve, while creating a healthier society for everyone. Speakers at todays hearing at the University of Maryland Francis King Carey School of Law in Baltimore, included U.S. Attorney General Holder; Sonja Sohn, founder and CEO of ReWired for Change and star of HBOs The Wire; Patrick McCarthy, president and CEO of the Annie E. Casey Foundation; Nigel Cox, chair of the SAVE (Students Against Violence Everywhere) National Advisory Board; and Baltimore and area residents who have experienced family, community and other types of violence. None The task force is part of the attorney generals Defending Childhood Initiative and is staffed by the National Council on Crime and Delinquency (NCCD), a nonprofit research and consulting agency. None About the Defending Childhood Initiative and the Task ForceNone About National Council on Crime and DelinquencyNone