None     The Department of Justice is committed to doing all it can to protect the security of our nations networks. Through the FBI and the National Security and Criminal Divisions, the department plays a critical role in preventing and prosecuting cybercrime, said Deputy Attorney General James M. Cole. Private parties play a critical role in mitigating and responding to cyber threats, and this policy statement should encourage them to share cybersecurity information.      Cyber threats are increasing in number and sophistication, and sharing information about these threats, such as incident reports, indicators and threat signatures, is something companies can do to protect their information systems and help secure our nations infrastructure, said Assistant Attorney General Bill Baer in charge of the Department of Justices Antitrust Division. With proper safeguards in place, cyber threat information sharing can occur without posing competitive concerns.     Because of the FTCs long experience promoting data security, we understand the serious threat posed by cyberattacks, said FTC Chairwoman Edith Ramirez. This statement should help private businesses by making it clear that antitrust laws do not stand in the way of legitimate sharing of cybersecurity threat information.     In the policy statement, the federal antitrust agencies recognize that the sharing of cyber threat information has the potential to improve the security, availability, integrity and efficiency of the nations information systems. The policy statement also emphasizes that the legitimate sharing of cyber threat information is very different from the sharing of competitively sensitive information such as current or future prices and output or business plans, which may raise antitrust concerns. Cyber threat information is typically technical in nature and covers a limited type of information, and disseminating that information appears unlikely to raise competitive concerns.      The joint Department of Justice/Federal Trade Commission Antitrust Guidelines for Collaborations Among Competitors provide an overview of the agencies analysis of information sharing as a general matter. The agencies consider whether the relevant agreement likely harms competition by increasing the ability or incentive to raise price above or reduce output, quality, service or innovation below what likely would prevail in the absence of the relevant agreement.  None