NoneEvery day, the Justice Departments prosecutors and trial attorneys work hard to protect our citizens, to safeguard precious taxpayer resources, and to provide a valuable return on investment to the American people, said Attorney General Eric Holder. Their diligent efforts are enabling us to achieve justice and recoup losses in virtually every sector of the U.S. economy. And as a result, I can report today that  during Fiscal Year 2014  the Justice Department collected a total of $24.7 billion in civil and criminal actions.The complete text of the Attorney Generals video message is below:Every day, the Justice Departments prosecutors and trial attorneys work hard to protect our citizens, to safeguard precious taxpayer resources, and to provide a valuable return on investment to the American people. Their diligent efforts are enabling us to achieve justice and recoup losses in virtually every sector of the U.S. economy. And as a result, I can report today that  during Fiscal Year 2014  the Justice Department collected a total of $24.7 billion in civil and criminal actions.NoneThis years total includes every dollar collected as a result of Justice Department-led enforcement actions and negotiated civil settlements. It comprises roughly $13 billion in payments made directly to the Justice Department, as well as $11 billion in indirect payments made to other federal agencies, states, and other recipients. And it shows the fruits of the Justice Departments tireless work in enforcing federal laws; in protecting the American people from violent crime, national security threats, discrimination, exploitation, and abuse; and in holding financial institutions accountable for their roles in causing the 2008 financial crisis.In fact, the largest single source of collections during 2014 came from civil settlements to resolve financial fraud claims, including record penalties paid by JPMorgan and Citigroup. These settlements also provide for billions of dollars of relief to struggling homeowners.As in past years, collections from civil and criminal health care fraud penalties  including hundreds of millions of dollars in fines from pharmaceutical companies accused of fraud, false claims, and drug safety violations  were among the largest sources of recovered funds. And all across the country  from Wall Street to Main Street  the Justice Departments robust criminal and civil efforts, in these and many other areas, have made a tremendous, positive difference in the lives of countless people.These achievements owe a great deal to the leadership of dedicated career attorneys and support staff members  in Washington and throughout the U.S. Attorney community  who serve the American people every day with integrity, with professionalism, and with steadfast commitment to the highest ideals of justice. I want to thank each of them for their contributions, and their patriotic service, in securing these collections and returning stolen funds to the public coffers.NoneNone