None None Todays filings further state that many individuals with disabilities, including, among others, people who are blind, deaf or have physical disabilities with an impact on manual dexterity, use computers and the Internet with the help of assistive technologies. For example, screen reader software makes audible information that is otherwise presented visually on a computer screen; captioning translates video narration and sound into text; and keyboard navigation allows keyboard input rather than a mouse to navigate a website for individuals with visual, hearing or manual dexterity disabilities. Such technologies have been widely used for some time and there are readily available, well-established, consensus-based guidelines  the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0  for making web content accessible to individuals with disabilities. None The web revolutionizes our lives daily and maximizes our independence in many areas, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Jocelyn Samuels for the Civil Rights Division. Inaccessible websites of public accommodations are not simply an inconvenience to individuals with disabilities  they deny persons with disabilities access to basic goods and services that people without disabilities take advantage of every day. An inaccessible website can also mean a business loses a customer it never knew it had. We are building an electronic world in which we ever-increasingly live, said U.S. Attorney Carmen Ortiz for the District of Massachusetts. All benefit when, as the ADA requires, we build our online businesses, schools and other public spaces in a manner equally accessible to all. Title III of the ADA prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability by public accommodations in the full and equal enjoyment of the goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages and accommodations. It also requires public accommodations to take necessary steps to ensure individuals with disabilities are not excluded, denied services, segregated or otherwise treated differently because of the absence of auxiliary aids and services, such as accurate captioning of audible materials and labeling of visual materials. NoneNone