A federal grand jury in the Eastern District of New York returned indictments separately charging three Queens, New York residents with identity theft-related crimes, announced Acting Deputy Assistant Attorney General Stuart M. Goldberg of the Justice Departments Tax Division.  According to the indictments, which were unsealed today, Sharon Coffee-Dean, a former Social Security Administration (SSA) employee, Kishore Jattan and Michael Bratton were each indicted for aggravated identity theft, misusing stolen social security numbers and fraudulent activity in connection with identification documents. Coffee-Dean was also indicted for conspiring to defraud the SSA and Bratton was also indicted for conspiring to defraud the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).  The indictment against Coffee-Dean alleges that from approximately December 2011 through January 2012, she stole the IDs of 41 people from SSA records, which she then sold to other individuals who used them to file fraudulent tax returns with the IRS. If convicted, Coffee-Dean faces a statutory maximum sentence of five years in prison for conspiracy, five years for fraud and related activity in connection with means of identification, 10 years for the misuse of a social security number as an SSA employee and a mandatory minimum of two years in prison for aggravated identity theft. She also faces a term of supervised release, restitution and monetary penalties.  The indictment against Jattan alleges that while working as a messenger, from April through June 2012, he stole student IDs from packages he delivered for a University located in New York and sold the stolen IDs to other individuals who used the IDs to file fraudulent tax returns with the IRS. If convicted, Jattan faces a statutory maximum sentence of five years for fraud and related activity in connection with means of identification, five years for misuse of a social security number and a mandatory minimum sentence of two years in prison for aggravated identity theft. He also faces a term of supervised release, restitution and monetary penalties.  None Acting Deputy Assistant Attorney General Goldberg thanked special agents of IRSCriminal Investigation, U.S. Postal Inspection Service, and the SSA Office of the Inspector General, New York Field Division, who conducted the investigations, and Trial Attorneys Mark Kotila and Ann M. Cherry of the Tax Division, who are prosecuting these cases.  None