Gregory Hubbard, aka Jibreel, 54, of West Palm Beach, Florida, pleaded guilty on Feb. 8, to conspiring to provide material support to the Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham (ISIS), a designated foreign terrorist organization.Acting Assistant Attorney General for National Security Edward OCallaghan, U.S. Attorney Benjamin G. Greenberg for the Southern District of Florida, Special Agent in Charge Robert F. Lasky of the FBIs Miami Field Office, and members of the South Florida Joint Terrorism Task Force (JTTF), made the announcement. The plea was entered before U.S. District Judge Robin L. RosenbergAccording to the factual basis, Hubbard was arrested on July 21, 2016, at Miami International Airport where he and an FBI confidential human source (CHS) had been driven by co-defendant Darren Arness Jackson for a scheduled flight to Berlin, Germany. From Berlin, Hubbard intended to travel to Syria to join ISIS. At various times during the conspiracy, which ran from approximately July 2015 until Hubbards arrest, Hubbard, and his co-defendants, Dayne Antani Christian and Jackson, talked with the CHS about their support for ISIS and jihad, including acts of terrorism committed by and attributed to ISIS and its supporters. During the conspiracy, Hubbard and his co-defendants including the CHS and others, practiced shooting weapons multiple times in preparation for Hubbard and the CHS traveling to Syria to join ISIS.Hubbard, a U.S. citizen, will be sentenced on April 19, and faces a statutory maximum sentence of 20 years in prison.  Christian pleaded guilty on March 29, 2017, to conspiracy to provide material support to ISIS, and to one count of being a felon in possession of a firearm. Jackson pleaded guilty on April 4, 2017, to conspiracy to provide material support to ISIS. Christian and Jackson both face a statutory maximum sentence of 20 years in prison on the conspiracy plea. Christian faces an additional statutory maximum sentence of 10 years in prison for his plea to being a felon in possession of a firearm. Both co-defendants are scheduled to be sentenced following Hubbards sentencing in April.None