A Franklin, Tennessee, man was sentenced late yesterday to 48 months in prison for engaging in an extortion and wire fraud scheme involving former presidential candidate Mitt Romneys tax returns.Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, Acting U.S. Attorney Jack Smith of the Middle District of Tennessee and Special Agent in Charge Todd Hudson of the U.S. Secret Services Nashville Field Office made the announcement.Michael Mancil Brown, 37, was found guilty at trial on May 12, 2016 of six counts of wire fraud and six counts of using facilities of interstate commerce to commit extortion. U.S. District Judge Billy Roy Wilson of the Eastern District of Arkansas, sitting by designation in the Middle District of Tennessee, imposed the sentence and also ordered Brown to pay $201,836 in restitution to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.According to testimony at trial, evidence recovered from a computer seized from Browns residence in 2012 implicated Brown in a scheme to defraud Romney, the accounting firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers and others by falsely claiming that he had gained access to the PricewaterhouseCoopers internal computer network and had stolen tax documents for Romney and his wife, Ann D. Romney, for tax years prior to 2010.In August 2012, a letter delivered to the offices of PricewaterhouseCoopers in Franklin demanded that $1 million worth of the digital currency Bitcoin be deposited to a specific Bitcoin account to prevent the release of the purportedly stolen Romney tax returns, according to trial evidence. The letter invited interested parties who wanted the allegedly stolen Romney tax documents to be released to contribute $1 million to another Bitcoin account. As part of the scheme, similar letters were delivered to the offices of the Democratic and Republican parties in Franklin and similar statements were posted to Pastebin.com.The U.S. Secret Services Nashville Field Office investigated the case with assistance from the FBIs Nashville Division. Senior Counsel Anthony V. Teelucksingh of the Criminal Divisions Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Byron Jones of the Middle District of Tennessee prosecuted the case.