  WASHINGTON  Pelican Refining Company LLC, was sentenced today to pay $12 million for felony violations of the Clean Air Act and obstruction of justice charges in federal court in Lafayette, La., announced Stephanie A. Finley, U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Louisiana, Ignacia S. Moreno, Assistant Attorney General of the Environment and Natural Resources Division of the Department of Justice, and Cynthia Giles, Assistant Administrator for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agencys (EPA) Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance.  This corporation operated without even the most basic requirements of an environmental compliance plan and endangered the public and its own employees by implementing unsafe practices in violation of its permit and reporting requirements, said Ignacia S. Moreno, Assistant Attorney General for the Environment and Natural Resources Division of the Department of Justice. Today's plea demonstrates that the Justice Department will continue to vigorously prosecute those who violate environmental and workplace safety laws.  This conviction sends a message to all those who threaten Louisianas precious environment that if they ignore their duty to adhere to the environmental laws, they will be investigated, prosecuted, fined and sentenced accordingly, said U.S. Attorney Finley. My office takes these violations very seriously, and we will continue to aggressively prosecute these types of cases. I particularly want to thank EPA, the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality and the state police for helping to bring these serious crimes to light and assisting in the investigation and prosecution of Pelican and the responsible individuals.  Facilities have a responsibility to protect their employees and local residents by following our nations environmental laws, said Cynthia Giles, Assistant Administrator for EPAs Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance. Corporations that choose to cut corners and ignore these critical safeguards will face significant consequences.  Pelican was sentenced today by U.S. District Court Judge Richard T. Haik Sr. to pay a $12 million penalty, which includes a $10 million criminal fine and $2 million in community service payments that will go toward various environmental projects in Louisiana, including air pollution monitoring. The criminal fine is the largest ever in Louisiana for violations of the Clean Air Act. Pelican is also prohibited from future operations unless it implements an environmental compliance plan, which includes independent quarterly audits by an outside firm and oversight by a court appointed monitor.  In a joint factual statement filed in court, Pelican, headquartered in Houston, admitted that the company had knowingly committed criminal violations of its operating permit at the refinery located in Lake Charles, La. The violations were discovered during a March 2006 inspection by the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality (LDEQ) and the EPA, which identified numerous unsafe operating conditions. Pelican also pleaded guilty to obstruction of justice for submitting materially false deviation reports to LDEQ, the agency that administers the federal Clean Air Act in Louisiana.  Pelican admitted to the following:None  The criminal investigation is being conducted by the EPA Criminal Investigation Division in Baton Rouge and the Louisiana State Police, with assistance from the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality. The case is being prosecuted by U.S. Attorney Finley, Senior Trial Attorney Richard A. Udell and Trial Attorney Christopher Hale of the Environmental Crimes Section of the Environment and Natural Resources Division of the U.S. Department of Justice.NoneNoneNone