NoneThe Justice Department is committed to using its resources to bring to justice those that are breaking the law by smuggling migrants into the United States. In Fiscal Year 2014 (FY14, Oct. 1, 2013, up to Sept. 30, 2014), the Justice Department filed criminal charges against 2,762 individuals for human smuggling or harboring immigrants. Nearly 90 percent of the criminal charges filed in FY14 for smuggling took place in Texas (1,515), California (511), Arizona (394), Florida (75) and New York (31). The announcement of these actions is just one part of ongoing, collaborative efforts to tackle unlawful migration. These efforts also helped to address last years influx of Central American migrants, including unaccompanied children and families crossing into the Rio Grande Valley, and demonstrate a continued commitment to dismantling human smuggling operations that put so many lives at risk.Individuals that facilitate smuggling acts need to be aware that they face criminal prosecution and fines. They also need to be aware of the dangers faced by the individuals that are being smuggled and also that the Department of Justice will seek forfeiture of funds transferred to others in connection with a smuggling crime. In addition, individuals trying to bring a family member to the United States by transferring funds to a coyote should be aware that those acts are against the law and their funds can be seized by the federal government.NoneNoneThe Justice Department has a long history of working with the Department of Homeland Security and other federal partners to investigate and prosecute human smugglers. These collaborative efforts lead to prosecutions of those responsible for the illegal entry of individuals, including unaccompanied minors. The string of human smuggling convictions on the southwest border emphasizes the federal law enforcement resources being brought to bear to dismantle and disrupt these dangerous, criminal operations. Human smuggling acts can also lead to extremely dangerous circumstances that pose a public safety threat and significant humanitarian concerns. Many of the cases prosecuted by U.S. Attorneys Offices throughout the country involve migrants who have been kidnapped, taken hostage, beaten, sexually assaulted, threatened or who have actually died as a result of living under some of the most perilous conditions.NoneIn addition, the Justice Department is working with countries like Honduras, Guatemala, El Salvador and Mexico to identify and prosecute smugglers who are aiding unaccompanied children crossing the U.S. border. The coordinated efforts also target facilitators operating in foreign countries.These ongoing enforcement efforts started before last years surge of unaccompanied minors and the Justice Department will continue to be vigilant in bringing smugglers to justice. In the years 2009 to 2014, the Justice Department charged more than 18,000 defendants with smuggling or harboring immigrants.