NoneOn June 21, the Department filed two separate civil actions in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York at the request of the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC). The complaints in each case alleged that the defendants were responsible for importing childrens products containing, among other things, lead, phthalates and small parts posing a choking hazard for children under the age of three. NoneCompanies who do not comply with CPSCs statutes and regulations regarding toys put American children at risk, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Chad A. Readler of the Justice Departments Civil Division. Parents have a right to expect that the toys their children play with are safe. Consumers across the country rely on our agency to protect their children from unsafe and dangerous childrens products, said CPSC Acting Chairman Ann Marie Buerkle. We take this responsibility very seriously and will take the necessary action to keep unsafe products out of the hands of our children. I appreciate and value the support from and collaboration with the Department of Justice. There is no greater responsibility of the Department of Justice than to protect our nations children, said Acting U.S. Attorney Bridget M. Rohde of the Eastern District of New York. The actions demonstrate the Departments commitment to keeping our children safe from potentially harmful products.The consent decrees resolve both cases brought by the Department. The decrees generally require the defendants to stop importing, selling, or distributing toys and other childrens products until they implement numerous remedial measures that will bring their operations into compliance with the law. These include, among other measures, implementing a product safety and testing program, hiring a product safety coordinator, having products tested by accredited testing bodies, and submitting to monitoring by the CPSC. In general, the defendants will be permitted to resume selling toys and other childrens products only after implementing these measures and demonstrating that their operations fully comply with the law. NoneNoneNone