None None   Officials announced the agreement at a press conference today on Treasure Island, overlooking the site of the 2007 crash.   U.S. Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar was joined by Assistant Attorney General Ignacia S. Moreno, head of the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division; California Attorney General Kamala D. Harris; Natural Resources Secretary John Laird; National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Chief of Staff Margaret Spring; San Francisco City Attorney Dennis Herrer; and representatives of the California Department of Fish and Game, State Lands Commission; state and regional water boards; and the East Bay Regional Park District, among others.   This settlement is great news for the Bay Area and for all who enjoy these lands and waters rich in beauty, wildlife, and recreational opportunities, said Secretary Salazar. With this settlement, we are seeing to it that those responsible for the spill are held accountable and that they pay their share for restoring and improving our precious natural resources and public lands.   The Cosco Busan oil spill had a major impact in the San Francisco Bay and beyond, oiling over 100 miles of shoreline, said Assistant Attorney General Moreno. This comprehensive settlement achieves full compensation for the significant natural resources that were injured as result of the Cosco Busan oil spill. It also forms the foundation for the complete restoration of precious lost natural resources, park system resources, and compensates for lost recreation uses for the benefit and enjoyment of the people of the San Francisco Bay Area and for all Americans.   The federal and state natural resource trustees estimate that the spill killed 6,849 birds, impacted 14 to 29 percent of the herring spawn that winter, oiled 3,367 acres of shoreline habitat and resulted in the loss of more than one million recreational user-days. A result of a multi-governmental effort by federal and state agencies, and municipal governments, the settlement is expected to fully compensate (in addition to previously reimbursed costs) for the natural resources and other damages and costs resulting from the spill.   The portion of the settlement for lost human uses of the shoreline and the bay, $18.8 million, constitutes one of the largest human use recoveries for any oil spill in the United States. Of this, the National Park Service is receiving approximately $9.75 million to improve coastal access and facilities in the bayside, coastal and estuarine areas of Golden Gate National Recreation Area, San Francisco Maritime National Historical Park and Point Reyes National Seashore.   The remaining $9 million will be disbursed either directly to local government as part of the consent decree or through a grant program to fund shoreline recreational projects throughout the impacted spill areas. None   On Dec. 10, 2007, the city and county of San Francisco filed, and the city of Richmond later joined, an action in the Superior Court of California seeking damages and injunctive relief under state law and common law. None NoneNone  This consent decree represents a just conclusion to the sustained and unrelenting efforts by the various government attorneys, including the San Francisco City Attorney's Office, to recover full compensation for the costs this oil spill imposed on our taxpayers and the damage it did to recreational opportunities at our beaches and in the Bay, said San Francisco City Attorney Dennis Herrera.   Numerous NOAA scientists and experts worked on this oil spill  playing a critical role before, during, after this incident. Thanks to the hard work we have all done as federal, state and local partners, today we stand together in declaring the importance of maintaining a safe and efficient marine transportation system both for protection of our oceans and the economy, said Margaret Spring, NOAA chief of staff. In tough economic times we must remember that 69 million jobs are associated with healthy oceans and coasts. This settlement today once again emphatically states the importance of these jobs. None   This settlement marks an excellent collaboration of agencies at all levels to restore and preserve San Francisco Bay, said Bruce Wolfe, the Executive Officer of the San Francisco Regional Water Quality Control Board. But it also reminds us that the amount of oil spilled in this incident is the equivalent of what automobile traffic deposits in the bay every year. All of us, as stewards of the Bay, must be diligent in doing all we can to protect it. None   The Northern District of California contains some of the most picturesque waterways in the country. Ship owners and operators cannot be allowed to take them for granted, said U.S. Attorney Melinda Haag of the Northern District of California. This settlement and the criminal cases we brought in 2008 against Fleet Management and Mr. Cota should send a strong message that the federal, state and local governments here will take action against anyone causing environmental harm to the San Francisco Bay. None