  WASHINGTON  A U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Officer, his girlfriend and an associate have been charged in Brownsville, Texas, for engaging in a multi-year bribery and alien smuggling operation along the U.S./Mexico border, announced Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Justice Departments Criminal Division.None  According to the indictment, between approximately October 2009 and approximately January 2011, Guerrero, his girlfriend Flores and their associates  including Rivera and Guerreros nephew Cantu  perpetrated a bribery and alien smuggling operation along the U.S./Mexico border. As part of the unlawful operation, Guerrero, Flores, Cantu and Rivera allegedly agreed to smuggle undocumented aliens (UDAs) from Mexico to the United States, in exchange for bribe payments to Guerrero and Flores. Guerrero and Flores allegedly charged between approximately $1,000 and $3,000 per UDA. According to the indictment, Flores, Cantu, Rivera and others recruited and solicited UDAs in Mexico who were willing to pay to be unlawfully smuggled from Mexico into the United States. To accomplish the unlawful smuggling events, Guerrero and Flores allegedly arranged for drivers, including Cantu, to pick up UDAs in Mexico. Guerrero allegedly facilitated the unlawful operation by permitting the UDAs to pass illegally through his inspection lane, in exchange for the bribe money. In order to conceal their unlawful activities, Guerrero and Flores allegedly arranged for the majority of the illegal crossings to take place at approximately midnight  shortly before the closing of the Pharr Port of Entry.  An indictment is merely a charge and is not evidence of guilt. The defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law. A trial date for Guerrero, Rivera and Flores has not been set. Cantus sentencing date has not been set.  The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Edward J. Loya Jr. and J.P. Cooney of the Criminal Divisions Public Integrity Section. The case is being investigated by agents from the FBIs South Texas Border Corruption Task Force, which includes agents from the FBI, DHS ICE Office of Professional Responsibility, CBP Office of Internal Affairs, DHS Office of Inspector General, DHS CBP U.S. Border Patrol and the Texas Rangers Division.