The Department of Justice announced today that California-based C.R. Laurence Co. Inc., Florida-based Southeastern Aluminum Products Inc. and Texas-based Waterfall Group LLC have agreed to pay $2,300,000, $650,000 and $100,000, respectively, to resolve a lawsuit brought by the United States under the False Claims Act alleging that the companies engaged in schemes to evade customs duties on imports of aluminum extrusions from the Peoples Republic of China (PRC). The companies sell shower doors and shower enclosures made with the PRC-manufactured aluminum extrusions.The nations customs laws are designed to protect domestic manufacturers from unfair competition abroad, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Joyce R. Branda of the Justice Departments Civil Division. The Department of Justice will pursue those who seek an unfair advantage in U.S. markets by evading the duties owed on goods imported into this country.The governments complaint alleged that C.R. Laurence, Southeastern and Waterfall made false declarations to the U.S. Department of Homeland Securitys Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to avoid paying antidumping and countervailing duties on aluminum extrusions imported from manufacturer Tai Shan Golden Gain Aluminum Products Ltd. in the PRC. The Department of Commerce assesses, and CBP collects, antidumping and countervailing duties to protect U.S. businesses and level the playing field for domestic products. Antidumping duties protect against foreign companies dumping products on U.S. markets at prices below cost, while countervailing duties offset foreign government subsidies. C.R. Laurence, Southeastern, and Waterfall allegedly misrepresented that the country of origin of the aluminum extrusions was Malaysia, when the goods were manufactured in the PRC and merely shipped through Malaysia  a practice called transshipping. Imports of PRC-manufactured aluminum extrusions have been subject to antidumping and countervailing duties since 2010. No such duties are due on imports of such items from Malaysia.The governments complaint also alleged that C.R. Laurence, Southeastern and Waterfall purchased PRC-made aluminum extrusions imported by other domestic companies and caused or conspired with those importers to make false declarations to CBP to evade duties. Countervailing and antidumping duties are designed to provide a level playing field between companies that purchase products domestically and those that import products from countries which subsidize their production, said U.S. Attorney A. Lee Bentley III for the Middle District of Florida. Importers who use fraud to avoid paying these duties gain an unfair business advantage over competitors who abide by the rules. This settlement reaffirms our commitment to ensuring that business competition remains fair in our district.Antidumping and countervailing duties are critical to ensure fair competition for U.S. manufacturers, said Commissioner R. Gil Kerlikowske of CBP. U.S. Customs and Border Protection works diligently with the Department of Justice, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Homeland Security Investigations, and the U.S. Department of Commerce to aggressively pursue duty evasion.NoneThe case was handled by the Civil Divisions Commercial Litigation Branch, the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Middle District of Florida, CBP, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the Department of Commerces International Trade Administration. None