The Justice Department, at the request of the Food and Drug Administrations Office of Criminal Investigations (FDA-OCI), has charged Gary D. Osborn and his corporation, ApothCure Inc., with two misdemeanor criminal violations of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (FDCA) in connection with their interstate shipment of two lots of misbranded colchicine injectable solution that led to the deaths of three people in the Pacific Northwest. The United States filed the criminal information in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas. ApothCure is a compounding pharmacy. The company, founded in 1991, is located in Dallas.Colchicine is used to prevent gout attacks (sudden, severe pain in one or more joints caused by abnormally high levels of a substance called uric acid in the blood) in adults, and to relieve the pain of gout attacks when they occur.The governments charges are based on ApothCures February 2007 shipment of 72 vials of compounded colchicine to a now-defunct medical center in Portland, Ore. On March 19, 2007, a patient in Yakima, Wash., received colchicine from this shipment. That patient died after receiving the infusion. The medical examiner there determined that the cause of death was multiple organ failure and acute colchicine toxicity. On March 30, 2007, colchicine from ApothCure was administered to two other patients who were suffering from back pain. Within hours of receiving the colchicine injections, both patients became seriously ill and were taken to local hospitals. Both patients died shortly thereafter. The medical examiner in Oregon determined colchicine toxicity to be the cause of death for both patients.FDA testing of vials selected from the lethal shipment revealed that some of the vials were super-potent, containing 640 percent of the level of colchicine declared on the label. Other vials were determined to be sub-potent, and contained less than 62 percent of the declared levels on the labels. The criminal charges we are filing today allege that the drugs mixed by Mr. Osborns company were misbranded which led to the tragic deaths of three people,said Tony West, Assistant Attorney General of the Civil Division of the Department of Justice. We cant allow those whofail to take care that their products are safe to escape accountability, and today's enforcement action demonstrates we wont.The criminal information filed today charges that ApothCure committed two prohibited acts under the FDCA by shipping misbranded drugs in interstate commerce. Mr. Osborn, as the person with responsibility over the firms operations, is strictly liable under the FDCA for the firms failure to follow federal law. In addition to the federal governments criminal charges, Attorneys General have pursued civil actions in Texas and Oregon against Mr. Osborn and ApothCure.None