Hiring Grants Will Aim to Create, Retain 866 Law Enforcement OfficersAttorney General Loretta E. Lynch today announced more than $107 million in grant funding through the Department of Justices Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS Office) COPS Hiring Program (CHP). The Attorney General announced funding awards to nearly 200 law enforcement agencies across the nation, aimed at creating, and in some cases protecting, 866 law enforcement positions.Ensuring that local law enforcement officers have the resources they need to serve their communities fairly, faithfully, and effectively is among the Justice Departments highest priorities, said Attorney General Lynch. These awards will not only keep more officers on the beat  they will address specific issue areas like violent crime, school safety, homeland security, and community trust. They will help our law enforcement agencies become more efficient and more responsive to the needs of their jurisdictions. And they will promote the ongoing efforts of the Department of Justice as we work to build the safe, secure, and supportive communities that every American deserves.COPS Office Director Ronald L. Davis remarked that The COPS Office is pleased to assist local law enforcement agencies throughout the country in addressing their most critical public safety issues. Funding from this years program will allow many cities and counties to apply new sworn personnel to issues related to violent crime, school safety, and building trust within their communities.CHP provides funding directly to state, local and tribal law enforcement agencies for the hiring and rehiring of entry-level career law enforcement officers in an effort to create and preserve jobs and increase community policing capacity and crime prevention efforts. All CHP applicants were asked to identify a specific crime and disorder problem area and how funding would be used to initiate or enhance their capacity to implement community policing approaches to that problem area. In 2015, the COPS Office gave additional consideration to applicant agencies selecting the category of Building Trust, and those agencies were encouraged to refer to the final report of the Presidents Task Force on 21st Century Policing for suggested actions to incorporate into their community policing strategies. Additional consideration was also given to agencies that selected the areas of school based policing, homicide or violent crime, and homeland security. Applicants who committed to hiring or rehiring at least one military veteran under CHP also received additional consideration for funding.NoneThe COPS Office is a federal agency responsible for advancing community policing nationwide. Since 1995, COPS has invested over $14 billion to advance community policing, including grants awarded to more than 13,000 state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies to fund the hiring and redeployment of more than 127,000 officers and provide a variety of knowledge resource products including publications, training, and technical assistance.