On Jan. 28, 2015, a federal grand jury in the District of Puerto Rico returned a six-count indictment charging nine individuals for the murder of Lieutenant Osvaldo Albarati-Casanas, a correctional officer of the Federal Bureau of Prisons, U.S. Attorney Rosa Emilia Rodrguez Vlez for the District of Puerto Rico announced.The indictment charges that, on or about Feb. 26, 2013, in the District of Puerto Rico, Oscar Martnez-Hernndez aka Cali, ngel D. Ramos-Cruz aka Api, Miguel Daz-Rivera aka Bolo, Juan Quiones-Melndez aka El Manco, Orlando Mojica-Rodrguez aka Yogui, Jayson Rodrguez-Gonzlez aka Gonzo, Carlos Rosado-Rosado aka Cano, Alexander Rosario de Len aka Coqu, and Jancarlos Velzquez-Vzquez aka Jan, the defendants herein, together with other persons known and unknown to the grand jury, aiding and abetting each other, did with premeditation and malice aforethought unlawfully kill Lieutenant Albarati-Casanas, an officer and employee of the United States, while he was engaged in and on account of the performance of his official duties.Counts one and two are charges related to the murder of Lieutenant Albarati-Casanas. Counts three and four are charges related to the murder for hire of Lieutenant Albarati-Casanas. Finally, counts five and six are charges related to the firearms used in the commission of the violent felonies, murder and murder for hire.Count two of the indictment sets forth the participation of the nine defendants in the conspiracy to commit murder. The purpose and object of the conspiracy was that the defendants would carry out the murder of Lieutenant Albarati-Casanas, thereby eliminating him as a correctional officer at the Metropolitan Detention Center and as a means of ensuring that the officer would no longer exercise his substantial investigative authority against the defendants and be unable to conduct seizures of contraband, including cellular phones, which were forbidden at the detention facility.According to the indictment, defendants Martnez-Hernndez, Ramos-Cruz and Daz-Rivera solicited another person(s) and financed the plan to murder Lieutenant Albarati-Casanas. Defendants Quiones-Melndez and Mojica-Rodrguez provided a vehicle, four Glock .40 fully automatic pistols and a cellular phone to defendants Rodrguez-Gonzlez, Rosado-Rosado and Rosario de Len to murder Lieutenant Albarati-Casanas. Defendant Velzquez-Vzquez served as driver to Mojica-Rodrguez and participated in the plan to murder the victim.Throughout his law enforcement career, Lieutenant Albaratis service was both selfless and courageous, said U.S. Attorney Rodrguez-Vlez. With this action, we continue our work to hold accountable those who carried out this reprehensible and senseless act. And in all that we do, the Department of Justice will continue to honor Lieutenant Albaratis sacrifice, to safeguard the community he served, and to protect the values and principles he defended all his life.In February 2013, Lieutenant Osvaldo Albaratis life was spontaneously and brutally robbed from him, his family and friends, his partners, and the good people across the Federal Bureau of Prisons, said Special Agent in Charge Carlos Cases of the FBI. It is my sincerest hope that, while it took some time, the tireless and selfless effort of the men and women who worked to solve this case brings justice and closure to Albaratis family. The FBI has always been and will continue to be relentless in the pursuit of justice.The murder of government employees and officials is a crime punishable by death or imprisonment for any terms of years or for life. Murder for hire is a crime punishable by death or imprisonment for any terms of years or for life. Possession of a firearm in furtherance of an attempted crime of violence is a crime punishable by a minimum penalty of 10 years and a maximum penalty of death or imprisonment for any term of years or for life.Criminal indictments are only charges and not evidence of guilt. A defendant is presumed to be innocent until and unless proven guilty.The case was investigated by the FBI with the collaboration of the Puerto Rico Police Department. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Julia Daz-Rex for the District of Puerto Rico and Trial Attorney Julie Mosley from the Justice Departments Criminal Division Capital Crimes Unit.