  The Justice Department announced today that the owner and former manager of the Lowrey Hotel and Caf in New Richmond, Wis., has agreed to pay $50,000 to settle a lawsuit alleging they had sexually harassed a homeless woman who sought shelter at the hotel.   The lawsuit, filed in the U.S. District Court in Madison, Wis., on Nov. 23, 2011, involved the Lowrey Hotel & Caf, a residential hotel that often provides housing to homeless people, who have been referred by local social services agencies. According to the complaint, Gerald Hoglund, of McClusky, N.D., formerly one of the hotels managers, sexually harassed a female tenant, who had been referred to the hotel by a social service agency, by making unwelcome requests to her for sexual favors. The complaint also alleged that Stacy Wright, co-manager and owner of the Lowrey Hotel & Caf LLC, warned the tenant that Hoglund might ask for sexual favors but failed to take reasonable steps to prevent it. None     A persons home should be a place of complete safety and security  no one should be subjected to unwanted sexual advances from any landlord, said John W. Vaudreuil, U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Wisconsin. This settlement reflects the United States commitment to ensuring that citizens in the Western District of Wisconsin have access to housing that is free from discrimination and sexual harassment.   Harassment victims are not alone in the fight to protect their housing rights, said John Trasvia, HUD Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity.  HUD and DOJ work vigorously to enforce their right to live free from discrimination.   The federal lawsuit arose when the tenant filed a complaint with the Chicago Regional Office of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), which conducted an investigation and, after issuing a charge of discrimination, referred the matter to the Department of Justice.   Under the terms of the settlement, which is subject to approval by the U.S. District Court, the defendants will pay the complainant $50,000 in damages. Defendants Stacy Wright and the Lowrey Hotel & Caf LLC will also develop and maintain non-discrimination housing policies and attend fair housing training. As part of the consent decree, Gerald Hoglund is permanently enjoined from entering the premises at the Lowrey Hotel & Caf and is permanently enjoined from having any involvement in the management, rental or maintenance of any rental property. None