A Miami Gardens, Florida, resident was sentenced to 48 months in prison in connection with a sophisticated global cell phone fraud scheme that involved compromising cellphone customers accounts and cloning their phones to make fraudulent international calls.Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Wifredo A. Ferrer of the Southern District of Florida and Special Agent in Charge George L. Piro of the FBIs Miami Field Office made the announcement.Edwin Fana, 37, was sentenced yesterday by U.S. District Judge Daniel T.K. Hurley of the Southern District of Florida. He pleaded guilty on Aug. 29 to one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud, access device fraud, the use, production or possession of modified telecommunications instruments and the use or possession of hardware or software configured to obtain telecommunications services; one count of wire fraud and one count of aggravated identity theft. Fana received a reduced prison sentence due to his cooperation in the governments investigation.According to the plea agreement, Fana and his co-conspirators participated in a scheme to steal access to and fraudulently open new cellphone accounts using the personal information of individuals around the United States. Fana admitted that the conspirators then trafficked in the cellphone customers telecommunication identifying information, using that data as well as other software and hardware to reprogram cellphones that they controlled to transmit thousands of international calls to Cuba, Jamaica, the Dominican Republic and other countries with high calling rates. The calls were billed to the victims compromised accounts, he admitted.In addition, Fana admitted that his role in the scheme included operating a call site in his residence in Miami Gardens. He would receive telecommunication identifying information associated with victims accounts from his co-conspirators and use that data to re-program cellphones that he controlled. Fanas co-conspirators would then transmit international calls over the internet to Fanas residence, where he would route them through the re-programmed cellphones. In October 2012, the FBI executed a search warrant on Fanas residence and discovered approximately 88 cellphones connected to networking equipment and actively routing calls.Law enforcement seized nearly 11,000 telecommunications identifying numbers from Fana and he admitted that the scheme caused at least $1 million in losses.Fana is the first defendant to be sentenced in the case. Jose Santana and Farintong Calderon have also pleaded guilty in connection with the scheme; Santana is scheduled to be sentenced on Jan. 4, 2017, and Calderon is scheduled to be sentenced on Feb. 21, 2017.The FBI investigated the case, dubbed Operation Toll Free, which is part of the FBIs ongoing effort to combat large-scale telecommunications fraud. Senior Counsel Matthew A. Lamberti of the Criminal Divisions Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Jared M. Strauss of the Southern District of Florida are prosecuting the case.