The Justice Department announced today that it has settled False Claims Act allegations against dental management company Benevis LLC (formerly known as NCDR LLC) and more than 130 of its affiliated Kool Smiles dental clinics for which Benevis provides business management and administrative services. Under the agreement, Benevis and the Kool Smiles clinics will pay the United States and participating states a total of $23.9 million, plus interest, to resolve allegations that they knowingly submitted false claims for payment to state Medicaid programs for medically unnecessary dental services performed on children insured by Medicaid.  None None None The allegations in these cases are particularly egregious because they involved medically unnecessary dental services performed on children, said U.S. Attorney John H. Durham for the District of Connecticut. Exploiting needy children for financial gain is inexcusable. The U.S. Attorneys Office in Connecticut is committed to aggressively pursuing health care providers that submit fraudulent claims to government health care programs.NoneThe governments investigation was initiated by five lawsuits filed under the whistleblower provision of the False Claims Act, which permits private citizens to file suit on behalf of the United States for false claims and share in a portion of the governments recovery. These cases are currently pending in the District of Connecticut and the Western District of Texas. As part of todays resolution, three of the whistleblowersformer Kool Smiles employees Adam Abendano, Poonam Rai, and Robin Fitzgeraldwill receive payments totaling more than $2.4 million from the federal share of the settlement.  When providers accept federal funds for reimbursement, they have a duty and responsibility to provide the best care possible to the patient, especially when their patients are economically disadvantaged children, said U.S. Attorney Ryan K. Patrick for the Southern District of Texas. The United States Attorneys Office for the Southern District of Texas will aggressively prosecute healthcare providers who fail to provide care as required when it adversely affects the taxpayers.  The conduct of Kool Smiles reached across state lines to impact many patients, many of them vulnerable children, said U.S. Attorney Dana J. Boente for the Eastern District of Virginia. I want to thank our law enforcement partners for their tireless effort and dedication in bringing about this nationwide resolution. Todays settlement sends a very clear signal: Fraud in the federal healthcare system will not be tolerated, said U.S. Attorney John F. Bash for the Western District of Texas. Especially when that fraud involves performing unnecessary procedures on kidshere, unnecessary baby root canals and tooth extractions, among other procedureswe will not hesitate to use every tool at our disposal to punish those who break the law. It is intolerable when health care companies seek to boost profits by defrauding Medicaid and exploiting children," said Special Agent in Charge Phillip M. Coyne, HHS-OIG. "Systematically performing and billing for medically unnecessary dental procedures undermines the well-being of these young patients, corrupts the impartiality of medical decision-making, and diverts money from taxpayer-funded health care programs designed to pay for legitimate medical needs. None None