Nishikawa Rubber Co. Ltd. (Nishikawa) has agreed to plead guilty and pay a $130 million criminal fine for its role in a conspiracy to fix the prices of and rig the bids for automotive body sealing products installed in cars sold to U.S. consumers, the Justice Department announced today.According to charges filed today in U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Kentucky, Nishikawa conspired from at least as early as January 2000 until at least September 2012 to fix the prices and rig bids of automotive body sealing products sold to Honda Motor Company Ltd., Toyota Motor Corporation, Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. (Subaru) and certain of their subsidiaries and affiliates in the United States and elsewhere. Automotive body sealing products consist of body-side opening seals, door-side weather-stripping, glass-run channels, trunk lids and other smaller seals, which are installed into automobiles to keep the interior dry from rain and free from wind and exterior noises. Nishikawa agreed to cooperate in the departments ongoing investigation. The plea agreement will be subject to court approval.Nishikawa has agreed to pay a steep price for its participation in a conspiracy that victimized consumers in both the United States and Canada, said Deputy Assistant Attorney General Brent Snyder of the Justice Departments Antitrust Division. However, Nishikawa deserves credit for acknowledging their conduct, accepting responsibility and charting a new path toward compliance and remediation.The FBI is committed to aggressively investigating companies and individuals who engage in criminal conduct that corrupts the global marketplace, said Special Agent in Charge Howard S. Marshall of the FBIs Louisville office. We will continue our work with the Department of Justice Antitrust Division to uncover schemes aimed at creating an unfair competitive advantage by way of price fixing, bid rigging or other illegal means.NoneTodays resolution is only the most recent and visible example of cooperation that routinely occurs between the Competition Bureau and U.S. Department of Justice, said Deputy Assistant Attorney General Snyder. We greatly appreciate and value the working relationship our two agencies have developed over many years of pursuing a shared mission to protect competition in our markets and the consumers who benefit from it.Strong cooperation among law enforcers is crucial to detect and deter cartel activities that span beyond our borders, said Senior Deputy Commissioner Matthew Boswellof the Cartels and Deceptive Marketing Practices Branch of the Competition Bureau of Canada. We achieved great results through cooperation with our US partners in this international investigation into bid-rigging in the auto parts industry. The Bureau continues to work closely with partners, in the US and elsewhere, to crack down on cartels.None