  WASHINGTON  Rodolfo Rodriguez Cabrera, 43, a Cuban national, and Henry Mantilla, 35, of Cape Coral, Fla., were sentenced today by U.S. District Court Judge Philip M. Pro in Las Vegas to two years in prison each for conspiring to produce and sell counterfeit International Game Technology (IGT) video gaming machines, commonly known as slot machines, and counterfeit IGT computer programs, announced Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney for the District of Nevada Daniel G. Bogden and FBI Special Agent in Charge of the Las Vegas Field Office Kevin Favreau.  Judge Pro also ordered Cabrera and Mantilla each to pay $151,800 in restitution and to serve three years of supervised release following their prison terms. The defendants also agreed to forfeit any and all counterfeit items in their possession and any illegal proceeds from their criminal activity.  Cabrera and Mantilla pleaded guilty on May 6, 2010, for their roles in the conspiracy. They were indicted originally by a federal grand jury in Las Vegas on April 22, 2009, with one count of conspiracy, two counts of trafficking in counterfeit goods, two counts of trafficking in counterfeit labels and two counts of criminal copyright infringement. According to court documents, Cabrera and Mantilla conspired between August 2007 and April 15, 2009, to make and sell unauthorized copies of computer programs designed for IGT video slot machines and counterfeit IGT video slot machines bearing IGTs registered trademarks, all without the permission of IGT.  Cabrera was arrested June 8, 2009, in Riga, Latvia, and extradited from Latvia to the United States on Oct. 23, 2009. Cabrera is the first individual to be extradited from Latvia to the United States under a new extradition treaty between the U.S. and Latvia, which entered into force on April 15, 2009. Cabreras extradition and prosecution is the result of cooperation between U.S. and Latvian law enforcement and the Latvian government.None  The case was prosecuted by Trial Attorney Thomas S. Dougherty of the Criminal Divisions Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section (CCIPS) and Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael Chu of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Nevada. Significant assistance has been provided by the Central Criminal Police Department of the Latvian Ministry of Interior; Latvias Office of the Prosecutor General, International Cooperation Division; and Senior Trial Attorney Deborah Gaynus of the Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs.