Two Subway franchise managers and a gas station manager, all residents of Virginia, pleaded guilty today to aiding and assisting in the filing of false tax returns, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Caroline D. Ciraolo of the Justice Departments Tax Division and U.S. Attorney Dana J. Boente of the Eastern District of Virginia.NoneTodays guilty pleas send a clear message that business owners and operators who seek to evade their tax obligations and avoid paying their fair share will be held accountable, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Ciraolo. Individuals engaged in this criminal conduct will face prosecution and substantial penalties, including incarceration.Individuals who provide false information for the preparation of fraudulent corporate tax returns will be caught and held responsible, said U.S. Attorney Boente. The guilty pleas today represent exactly that. My thanks to our partners at IRS-Criminal Investigations for their efforts on this case.As part of their guilty pleas, Ali, Rahman and Siddique admitted that at Hoques direction they did not deposit all of the Subway franchises or the gas stations gross receipts into the corporate or partnership bank accounts. Instead, Hoque, Ali, Rahman and Siddique retained a portion of the gross receipts for their personal benefit. Ali, Rahman and Siddique maintained detailed records of the Subway franchises and gas stations total sales, the amounts deposited into the bank accounts and the amounts distributed to each of them for their personal benefit. Ali and Rahman admitted that, at Hoques direction, they destroyed these records.NoneAli, Rahman and Siddique admitted that they failed to report to the IRS on their individual income tax returns their receipt of unreported gross receipts. Ali admitted that his conduct caused a tax loss of more than $550,000 but less than $1.5 million. Rahman admitted that his conduct caused a tax loss of more than $250,000 but less than $550,000. Siddique admitted that his conduct caused a tax loss of more than $100,000 but less than $250,000.Hoque pleaded guilty on Jan. 27 to conspiracy to defraud the United States and admitted that his conduct caused a tax loss to the IRS of between $1.5 million and $3.5 million. Hoque is scheduled to be sentenced on May 13.Rahman, Ali and Siddique each face a statutory maximum sentence of three years in prison and a $250,000 fine. As part of their plea agreements, Rahman, Ali and Siddique agreed to pay restitution to the IRS for their personal tax liabilities. U.S. District Judge Liam OGrady set sentencing for July 15.Acting Assistant Attorney General Ciraolo and U.S. Attorney Boente thanked special agents of IRS-Criminal Investigation, who investigated the case and Assistant Chief Caryn Finley and Trial Attorney Kimberly Shartar of the Tax Division, and Assistant U.S. Attorney Uzo Asonye of the Eastern District of Virginia, who prosecuted the case.None