  WASHINGTON  A member of the North Carolina Almighty Latin King and Queen Nation (Latin Kings) pleaded guilty to racketeering-related charges, announced Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and U. S. Attorney for the Middle District of North Carolina Ripley Rand.  Wesley Anderson Williams, aka King Bam, pleaded guilty on Monday, Oct. 1, 2012, in U.S. District Court in Winston-Salem, N.C. to one count of conspiracy to participate in a racketeering enterprise.  During his plea hearing, Williams admitted to his criminal conduct and membership in the Latin Kings. Specifically, Williams admitted to committing home invasion, burglary, assault, arson and check kiting on behalf of the racketeering enterprise.  Williams faces up to 20 years in prison and a fine of up to $250,000 at sentencing, which has not yet been scheduled.  In February 2012, Williams and 13 others were charged in a superseding indictment returned by a federal grand jury in Greensboro. The superseding indictment alleges the defendants participated in a violent racketeering conspiracy involving Hobbs Act (commercial) robberies, kidnapping, robbery, arson and extortion involving several businesses and individuals in the Greensboro/Winston-Salem area.None  Carlos Coleman, aka King Spanky; Jorge Peter Cornell, aka King J; Russell Lloyd Kilfoil, aka King Peaceful; Randolph Leif Kilfoil, aka King Paul; Jason Paul Yates, aka King Squirrel; Samuel Isaac Velasquez, aka King Hype; Irvin Vasquez, aka King Dice; and Ernesto Wilson, aka King Yayo, also named in the superseding indictment and identified as alleged members and associates of the Latin Kings in North Carolina, are scheduled for trial on Oct. 15, 2012.  An indictment is merely an allegation and is not evidence of guilt. A defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.  The cases are being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Leshia M. Lee-Dixon of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert A. J. Lang for the Middle District of North Carolina. The matter was investigated by the FBI Charlotte Field Office, Greensboro Resident Agency; Greensboro Police Department; and the Guilford County Sheriffs Office.