  WASHINGTON A settlement agreement has been reached with the Franklin County Sheriffs Office in Columbus, Ohio, over the use of Conducted Energy Devices (CEDs), or electrically charged weapons commonly referred to by the brand name "TASER," in its two jails, the Franklin County Corrections Centers, the Department of Justice announced today. The settlement was filed as a joint motion   in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio.  On Nov. 3, 2010, the United States filed a motion to intervene in a case alleging that the Franklin County Sheriffs Office engaged in a policy and practice of excessive and abusive use of CEDs against detainees and inmates. The case, which is represented by the Ohio Legal Rights Service, Ohios protection and advocacy system for people with disabilities, includes "all persons who . . . are or will be placed in the custody of the Franklin County Sheriffs Office at the Franklin County Corrections Centers." The United States moved to join in the case under the provision of to the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, and filed its own complaint to ensure the uniform national interpretation and application of civil rights laws pertaining to excessive force by law enforcement, an area in which the Justice Department has special expertise. The district court granted the United States motion to join the matter on Dec. 14, 2010.  The court-enforceable agreement not only establishes significant safeguards against the abusive use of CEDs against detainees and inmates, but also ensures that those who disobey deputies orders in a non-violent manner will not be stunned by the electrically charged weapons. The agreement also requires changes to the suicide risk-assessment policies that will restrict the practice of electrically stunning individuals who show resistance to being forcibly changed into suicide safety gowns.  "The important public safety role that law enforcement agencies play does not excuse them from the responsibility to uphold the civil rights of all individuals," said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division. "We commend the Franklin County Sheriffs Office for acknowledging its responsibility to uphold the constitutional rights of persons in its custody. Todays agreement will go a long way towards increasing public confidence in the sheriffs office and protecting the rule of law."None