Assistant Attorney General Makan Delrahim of the U.S. Department of Justices Antitrust Division and Acting Chairman Maureen Ohlhausen of the Federal Trade Commission participated in high-level bilateral meetings with officials responsible for Chinas three anti-monopoly agencies: Vice Chairman Hu Zucai and Director General Zhang Handong of the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC), Assistant Minister Li Chenggang and Director General Wu Zhenguo of the Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM), and Vice Minister Wang Jiangping and Director General Yang Hongcan of the State Administration for Industry and Commerce (SAIC). NDRC Chairman He Lifeng welcomed Assistant Attorney General Delrahim and Acting Chairman Ohlhausen to NDRC before the meetings.The meetings took place this week in Beijing, China, where participating agencies discussed their ongoing work to ensure fair and effective antitrust enforcement and increased cooperation between the agencies. The meetings covered a wide range of topics, including enforcement and policy developments and priorities, the treatment of intellectual property, and future opportunities for cooperation. In addition, the agencies exchanged views on the role of sound and effective procedures in competition enforcement and the importance of competition advocacy in promoting innovation. The meetings will continue today and tomorrow, with separate meetings between U.S. antitrust enforcers and each of the three Chinese agencies.Following the high-level bilateral meetings, Assistant Attorney General Delrahim spoke on competition, intellectual property and economic prosperity at an event co-hosted by the China Intellectual Property Law Society, the Peking University Intellectual Property Alumni Association, and the U.S. Embassy in Beijing. Assistant Attorney General Delrahim discussed the importance of strong IP protections to a successful and vibrant economy, and shared his views regarding how competition enforcement should be calibrated to maximize innovation for the benefit of consumers. He also addressed the role of international engagement in enhancing innovation and competition, and discussed his hopes for continued engagement between the United States and China on these issues. The U.S. delegations visit to China is the fourth occasion for joint, high-level meetings between the agencies since the Justice Department and the FTC signed an antitrust memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the Chinese antitrust agencies on July 27, 2011. The MOU is designed to promote communication and cooperation between the U.S. and Chinese antitrust enforcement agencies, and provides for periodic high-level consultations.