Iron Mountain Incorporated and Iron Mountain Information Management LLC (collectively Iron Mountain) has paid $44.5 million to resolve allegations under the False Claims Act that Iron Mountain overcharged federal agencies for record storage services under General Services Administration (GSA) contracts, the Department of Justice announced today. Iron Mountain is a records storage company headquartered in Boston.Protecting the federal procurement process from false claims is central to the mission of the Department of Justice, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Joyce R. Branda for the Justice Departments Civil Division. We will continue to ensure that when federal monies are used to purchase commercial services the government receives the prices and services to which it is entitled.This settlement illustrates our commitment to protecting the integrity of federal contracting programs, said U.S. Attorney Benjamin B. Wagner for the Eastern District of California. Federal agencies rely on pricing information under the Multiple Award Schedule program in particular, and deserve the full benefit of applicable contract terms.This settlement relates to contracts under which Iron Mountain provided record storage services to government entities from 2001 to 2014 through GSAs Multiple Award Schedule (MAS) program. The MAS program provides the government with a streamlined process for procurement of commonly used commercial goods and services. The settlement resolves allegations that Iron Mountain failed to meet its contractual obligations to provide GSA with accurate information about its commercial sales practices during contract negotiations, and failed to comply with the price reduction clause of the GSA contracts by not extending lower prices to government customers during its performance of the contracts. It also resolves an allegation that Iron Mountain charged the United States for storage meeting National Archives and Records Administration requirements when the storage provided did not meet such requirements.My office will continue working diligently to make sure American taxpayers are getting the best value for every dollar spent, said Acting Inspector General Robert C. Erickson for GSA.The civil settlement resolves a lawsuit filed under the whistleblower provision of the False Claims Act, which permits private parties to file suit on behalf of the United States for false claims and obtain a portion of the governments recovery. The civil lawsuit was filed in the Eastern District of California by Brent Stanley, a former Iron Mountain employee, and Patrick McKillop, who worked in the records management industry. Collectively, they will receive $8,010,000.The settlement with Iron Mountain was the result of a coordinated effort among the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of California, the Civil Divisions Commercial Litigation Branch, the GSAs Office of the Inspector General, the Defense Criminal Investigative Service, the Defense Contract Audit Agency, the NASA Office of Inspector General, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Office of Inspector General, the U.S. Department of Agricultures Office of Inspector General, U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command, and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Developments Office of Inspector General.None