NoneIf the plea terms are accepted by U.S. District Court Judge Susan Illston, Cota will be sentenced to serve between two and ten months in prison and be fined between $3,000 to $30,000. The exact sentence will be determined by the court with the government reserving the right to argue for the highest sentence within this range. The plea also requires Cota to serve the maximum one year of supervised release during which he will not serve as a ship pilot or ship Captain (Master). Sentencing has been scheduled for June 19, 2009.NoneJohn Cota was an experienced ship pilot that was handsomely compensated for his special knowledge of ships and expertise in local waters. His failure to act prudently under the circumstances caused a major environmental disaster that could have been far worse, said Joseph Russoniello, U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of California. This case should sound an alert to those in the maritime industry that safety rules and procedures are meant to be followed, safety equipment is expected to be used, and that those who act otherwise and despoil our natural wonders will be prosecuted to the full extent of the law.NoneThe allision caused a gash measuring approximately 150 feet long by 12 feet high on the port side of the ship, puncturing two of the ships fuel tanks and damaging the fendering system on the Delta tower of the bridge, and resulting in a significant environmental clean-up. At least 2,000 migratory birds died, including Brown Pelicans, Marbled Murrelets and Western Grebes. The Brown Pelican is a federally endangered species and the Marbled Murrelet is a federally threatened species and an endangered species under California law.At the hearing today, Judge Illston set trial for the remaining defendant in the case, the ships manager, Fleet Management Ltd. (Hong Kong), for Sept. 14, 2009. Fleet is also charged with acting negligently and being a proximate cause of the pollution and killing protected migratory birds. In addition to the environmental crime charges, Fleet is charged with obstructing justice and making false statements by falsifying ship records after the incident. An indictment is merely an accusation. All defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty at trial beyond a reasonable doubt.NoneThe investigation is being conducted by the Coast Guard Investigative Service, the EPA Criminal Investigation Division, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the California Department of Fish and Game, Office of Spill Prevention and Response.The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Jonathan Schmidt, and Stacey Geis, Special Assistant U.S. Attorney Christopher Tribolet of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Northern District of California and Richard A. Udell, Senior Trial Attorney with the Justice Departments Environmental Crimes Section.None