  The Justice Department today announced an enhanced online resource designed to support American victims of overseas terrorism. The site, sponsored and maintained by the National Security Divisions Office of Justice for Victims of Overseas Terrorism (OVT), will expand the publics ability to obtain information about the types of support available to help victims of overseas attacks and their loved ones in the aftermath of acts of international terrorism, including information about programs available to assist victims in connection with foreign criminal justice proceedings. In addition, the website provides greater information about OVTs establishment and services, for victims and others interested in OVTs work.  This enhanced website will serve as an important resource for U.S. victims of overseas terrorism and their loved ones, said John P. Carlin, Acting Assistant Attorney General for National Security. The Department remains committed both to seeking justice for Americans victimized by terrorism, whether at home or abroad, and to providing victims the information and support they deserve.  The Attorney General established the OVT on May 6, 2005. It is now a component of the Justice Departments National Security Division. The primary purpose of the OVT is to ensure that the investigation and prosecution of terrorist attacks against American citizens overseas remain a high priority within the Department of Justice.  The OVT is responsible for monitoring the investigation and prosecution of terrorist attacks against Americans abroad; working with other pertinent Justice Department components to ensure that the rights of victims of such attacks are honored and respected; establishing a Joint Task Force with the Department of State, to be activated in the event of a terrorist attack in which Americans are harmed; and serving as an information resource to American victims of overseas terrorism including, as appropriate, information about ongoing foreign investigations and prosecutions.  It is crucially important that any Americans attacked while traveling or living outside of our borders receive the support of our government as they pursue justice in the aftermath of the tragedy of terrorism, said Heather Cartwright, Director of the Office of Justice for Victims of Overseas Terrorism. This online resource gathers in one place important information for American victims of overseas terrorism and provides assistance as they seek accountability for these crimes.  The enhanced online resource will first be made available on the Justice Departments website at http://www.justice.gov/nsd/ovt.