  The owner of a Louisiana medical equipment supply company and a marketer who worked for the company have been indicted for allegedly engaging in a $3 million Medicare fraud scheme.  Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, Special Agent in Charge Mike Fields of the Dallas Region of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of the Inspector General (HHS-OIG), and Special Agent in Charge Michael Anderson of the FBIs New Orleans Division made the announcement.  Tracy Brown, 43, of New Orleans, and Sandra Parkman Thompson, 62, who is currently incarcerated in Texas, were charged in the Eastern District of Louisiana in an 18-count indictment including charges of health care fraud, conspiracy to commit health care fraud, conspiracy to pay and receive health care fraud kickbacks, and illegal remuneration. If convicted, the defendants face 10 years in prison for each health care fraud conspiracy and health care fraud count, and five years in prison for each remaining count.  According to the indictment, Brown owned Psalms 23-DME and is alleged to have billed Medicare more than $3 million for power wheelchairs, wheelchair accessories and orthotic equipment for Medicare beneficiaries who neither wanted nor needed the equipment. Brown also allegedly paid illegal kickbacks to Thompson and other marketers to locate doctors who were willing to prescribe the equipment to Medicare beneficiaries who did not want or need these items. Thompson and other marketers were paid for each prescription they obtained for Psalms 23-DME, regardless of whether the items prescribed were wanted or needed.  Thompson and other marketers allegedly obtained falsified prescriptions for medically unnecessary equipment from Drs. Anthony Jase and Michael Hunter. A third physician allegedly provided falsified prescriptions directly to Brown. In exchange, Brown paid this physician approximately $250 per prescription.  The indictment alleges that in some cases, the equipment Psalms 23-DME billed to Medicare was never provided to a Medicare beneficiary. In other cases, Brown would bill for the most expensive types of durable medical equipment allowed by Medicare but would provide Medicare beneficiaries with much less expensive versions of the equipment, which would not have been reimbursed by Medicare.  According to the indictment, Brown allegedly paid Thompson and other marketers approximately $500 for each wheelchair referral submitted and between approximately $200 and $250 for a so-called arthritis kit referral, a term used by Psalms 23-DME for a number of braces and other orthotic items that were billed for Medicare beneficiaries regardless of medical need or physician request.  Jase and Hunter pleaded guilty to health care fraud charges on Oct. 31, 2013, and Sept. 26, 2012, respectively, and are awaiting sentencing.  An indictment is merely an accusation and defendants are presumed innocent until and unless they are proven guilty.  The case was investigated by HHS-OIG and the FBI and was brought as part of the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, under the supervision of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section. This case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Arunabha Bhoumik of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Patrice Sullivan of the Eastern District of Louisiana.  Since its inception in March 2007, the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, now operating in nine cities across the country, has charged more than 1,500 defendants who have collectively billed the Medicare program for more than $5 billion. In addition, HHSs Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, working in conjunction with HHS-OIG, are taking steps to increase accountability and decrease the presence of fraudulent providers.None