None       Romano Pisciotti, an Italian national and a former manager of Parker ITR Srls Oil & Gas Business Unit, pleaded guilty in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida in Ft. Lauderdale, to a one-count felony indictment that was filed under seal on Aug. 26, 2010, and unsealed on Aug. 5, 2013.  None       Todays guilty plea demonstrates the Antitrust Divisions ability to bring to justice those who violate antitrust laws, even when they attempt to avoid prosecution by remaining in foreign jurisdictions, said Assistant Attorney General Bill Baer in charge of the Department of Justices Antitrust Division. The Antitrust Division and its law enforcement partners will continue to protect consumers from cartels that affect the domestic and international economy.None       According to the indictment, Pisciotti carried out the conspiracy by agreeing during meetings, conversations and communications to allocate shares of the marine hose market among the conspirators; use a price list for marine hose in order to implement the conspiracy; and not compete for customers with other marine hose sellers either by not submitting prices or bids or by submitting intentionally high prices or bids, all in accordance with the agreements reached among the conspiring companies. As part of the conspiracy, Pisciotti and his conspirators provided information received from customers in the United States and elsewhere about upcoming marine hose jobs to another co-conspirator who served as a coordinator of the conspiracy. The coordinator acted as a clearinghouse for bidding information that was shared among the conspirators, and was paid by the manufacturers for coordinating the conspiracy. Pisciotti recruited at least two individuals from other marine hose firms to participate in the conspiracy. The department said the conspiracy began at least as early as 1999 and continued until at least May 2007. Pisciotti was charged with participating in the conspiracy from at least as early as 1999 until at least November 2006.None     The investigation is being conducted by the Antitrust Divisions Washington Criminal I Section, the Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS) of the Department of Defenses Office of Inspector General, the U.S. Navy Criminal Investigative Service and the FBI. The U.S. Marshals Service and other law enforcement agencies from multiple foreign jurisdictions are also investigating or assisting in the ongoing matter. The Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of Florida provided assistance.     Anyone with information concerning bid rigging or other anticompetitive conduct in the marine products industry is urged to call the Antitrust Divisions Washington Criminal I Section at 202-307-6694. 