The Defendants Are Part of a Bank/ATM Robbery Gang from the Campanilla and Candelaria Wards in the Municipality of Toa Baja, Puerto RicoA 17 count federal indictment was unsealed today in the District of Puerto Rico charging 21 defendants with racketeering, conspiracy to commit bank robbery, burglary and larceny, interference with commerce by robbery, carjacking, conspiracy to possess with the intent to distribute controlled substances and related firearm offenses, announced U.S. Attorney Rosa Emilia Rodrguez-Vlez for the District of Puerto Rico. The FBI and the Puerto Rico Police Department, Bank Robbery Division, are in charge of the investigation.The defendants are: Alfredo Umpierre-Santiago aka Freddie; Luis ngel Guerrido-Medina aka Viejo; Juan Rosario-Marrero aka Vaquerito; Steven Tapia-Morales aka El Gordo; Elvin Morales-Ramrez aka Chino; Obrayan Hernndez-Lpez aka Oby; Luis R. Cotto-Rivera aka Dico; Ivan Martnez-Torres; Enrique Prez-Rivera aka Henry; David Vargas-Santiago aka Davo; Jahn M. Fermin-Corts aka Jan; Carlos Fidian Jimnez-Feliz, aka Picachu; Jos Reyes-Nevres aka Piti; Gabriel Vlez aka Avatar; Yarelis E. Garca-Ruiz; Javier Ortiz-Nieves aka Javo; Stephanie Herrera-Montaez aka Guri; Karina Alamo-Marrero; Yeisha M. Pedraza-Santiago; Jimmy Molina-Otero aka To Jimmy; and Edmanuel Laureano-Spanoz, aka Emma.The indictment charges robberies to four banks, two credit unions and a gas station. According to the indictment, as part of the racketeering and bank robbery conspiracies, the organization committed the following violent acts:Defendants Guerrido-Medina and Laureano-Spanoz are facing one charge of conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute heroin, cocaine and marihuana. All defendants are facing a RICO forfeiture allegation of at least $190,900 and a bank robbery forfeiture allegation of $344,240.The U.S. Attorneys Office will continue its prosecution of organized gangs and their members who engage in senseless acts of violence to wreak havoc in our communities, said U.S. Attorney Rodrguez-Vlez. Those who choose to become involved in such a lifestyle should know that law enforcement at every level will work together tirelessly to bring them to justice.Today's operations addressed some of the most violent gang activity in the United States, said Special Agent in Charge Douglas A. Leff for the FBIs San Juan Division. The acts of violence that accompanied the alleged robberies were premeditated and utilized sophisticated techniques to defeat alarms and video surveillance systems. The dedicated prosecutors and investigators went to great lengths to identify and apprehend those responsible, and their efforts will significantly increase the safety of our citizens and financial institutions.Assistant U.S. Attorney Max Prez-Bouret and Special Assistant U.S. Attorney Normary Figueroa are in charge of the prosecution of the case. If convicted, the defendants face up to life in prison. Seven of the defendants who participated in the murder included in the indictment are eligible for the death penalty. Indictments contain only charges and are not evidence of guilt. Defendants are presumed to be innocent until and unless proven guilty.