  WASHINGTON  The founder and treasurer of the National Association of Special Police and Security Officers (NASPSO) was charged today in a superseding indictment with mail fraud, theft from a labor organization, obstruction of justice, criminal contempt and various recordkeeping offenses related to his operation of a pension plan for NASPSO members.   NASPSO is a labor union representing private security guards assigned to protect federal buildings in the Washington, D.C., metro area.    None None None   The superseding indictment charges Gray-Burriss with criminal contempt of a court order after he allegedly stole money from the NASPSO treasury to pay his personal fines due in the civil settlement.   The superseding indictment also alleges that Gray-Burriss resumed his involvement with NASPSO-sponsored health and pension plans after the civil lawsuit was settled, even though he was prohibited by court order from doing so.   In addition, the superseding indictment charges that Gray-Burriss, while an officer and employee of NASPSO, stole more than $115,000 in NASPSO funds through unauthorized salary increases and bonuses to himself, cash withdrawals from ATMs, reimbursement for unauthorized vacations and trips to casinos, personal dental work, and other goods and services.   Gray-Burriss also allegedly unlawfully used NASPSO funds to pay his parking tickets and personal fines in a civil lawsuit.   Finally, the superseding indictment charges Gray-Burriss with two counts of obstructive of justice for concealing and/or destroying NASPSO records and attempting to induce a witness to withhold testimony and records during the grand jury investigation.   An indictment is merely an allegation, and a defendant is presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.   Gray-Burriss faces a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine on each of the mail fraud and obstruction of justice charges.   The theft from a labor organization charge carries a maximum penalty of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine.   Gray-Burriss also faces additional penalties if convicted of the criminal contempt and recordkeeping charges.   The investigation leading to the superseding indictment of Gray-Burriss was conducted by investigators from three agencies of the U.S. Department of Labor  the Employee Benefits Security Administration, the Office of Labor Management Standards and the Office of Inspector General, Office of Labor Racketeering and Fraud Investigations.   The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Vincent Falvo of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Racketeering Section.