  WASHINGTON - A Virginia man pleaded guilty today to one count of mail fraud for his participation in a scheme to defraud the U.S. Department of Defense, announced Assistant Attorney General of the Criminal Division Lanny A. Breuer and U.S. Attorney Neil H. MacBride of the Eastern District of Virginia. None  According to court documents, BAE Systems Training Services Inc. (BAE) maintained a procurement contract with the Defense Department during 2005 and 2006.   Under the terms of the contract, BAE would purchase surveillance equipment and subsequently bill the U.S. government for those purchases.   According to court documents, Feeney worked as a logistics engineer at BAE and was responsible for purchasing the items needed under the contract.      According to court documents, Feeney started making secret purchases in BAEs name beginning in August 2005.   He admitted that he used his position to authorize the purchase of camera lenses and video equipment, intending to keep the equipment for his personal use but to bill BAE for the purchases.   This would in turn cause BAE to use the mail to bill those purchases to the United States.   Between Aug. 6, 2005, and June 30, 2006, Feeney admitted he made 15 illicit purchases, totaling $476,424 in fraudulent charges, of which $464,819 was billed to the U.S. government.   According to court documents, Feeney subsequently sold many of the purchases on an Internet auction site for profit. None   The case is being prosecuted by Fraud Section Trial Attorney Liam Brennan and Special Assistant U.S. Attorney Steve A. Linick, Deputy Chief of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section.   The investigation is being conducted by Defense Criminal Investigative Service and members of the National Procurement Fraud Task Force.   Todays charges are an example of the Department of Justices commitment to protect U.S. taxpayers from procurement fraud through the National Procurement Fraud Task Force.   The National Procurement Fraud Initiative, announced in October 2006, is designed to promote the early detection, identification, prevention and prosecution of procurement fraud associated with the increase in contracting activity for national security and other government programs.   