The United States filed a False Claims Act complaint against DynCorp International Inc. (DynCorp) alleging that it knowingly submitted inflated claims in connection with a State Department contract to train Iraqi police forces (CIVPOL contract), the Department of Justice announced today. The United States filed the complaint in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. DynCorp, which is headquartered in McLean, Virginia, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Delta Tucker Holdings Inc.In April 2004, the State Departments Bureau for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs awarded the CIVPOL contract to DynCorp to provide training for civilian police forces in Iraq and other services needed to support that effort, such as trainers, guards, translators, vehicles and living quarters for contractor personnel. In its complaint, the United States alleges that DynCorp knowingly allowed one of its main CIVPOL subcontractors to charge excessive and unsubstantiated rates for hotel lodging, translator, security guard and driving services and overhead expenses, and included these charges in the claims it submitted under the CIVPOL contract to the State Department. The complaint also alleges that DynCorp added its own markup to its subcontractors excessive charges, thereby further inflating the claims it submitted to the government.Companies that contract with the United States have an obligation to deal fairly and openly with the government, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer, head of the Justice Departments Civil Division. Attempting to take advantage of the American taxpayers in times of war is a shameful abuse of this responsibility.The United States relies on its contractors to be forthcoming with accurate information and to act responsibly in return for receiving the taxpayers money, said U.S. Attorney Channing D. Phillips of the District of Columbia. Our office is committed to recovering funds from those who fail to adhere to those responsibilities and obligations.The civil complaint in this action is the result of an investigation by the Civil Divisions Commercial Litigation Branch, the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Columbia and the State Departments Office of Inspector General.None