None  On Aug. 2, 2012, Guerrero pleaded guilty to one count each of conspiracy to participate in racketeering activity, conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute and distribute five kilograms or more of cocaine and 1,000 kilograms or more of marijuana, interference with commerce by threats or violence, and use and carrying of a firearm during and in relation to crimes of violence and drug trafficking. On July 31, 2012, Gudino and Clay each pleaded guilty to one count of racketeering conspiracy.  According to the third superseding indictment filed in this case, the Latin Kings is a nationwide gang that originated in Chicago and has branched out throughout the United States. The Latin Kings is a well organized street gang that has specific leadership and is composed of regions that include multiple chapters. The third superseding indictment charges that the Latin Kings were responsible for at least 19 murders, including juveniles and one pregnant woman, in the Chicago/Northwest Indiana area and Big Spring, Texas.None  Guerrero also admitted to participating in robberies at the direction of Latin Kings leader and co-conspirator Sisto Bernal. Specifically, Guerrero acknowledged that in approximately December 2006, he entered into the Hammond residence of James Walsh, a rival gang member. Guerrero and his police partner and co-defendant Antonio Martinez physically restrained Walsh and others while the home was searched and robbed. Guerrero admitted that by committing these crimes while employed as a Chicago police officer, he abused a position of public trust in a manner that significantly facilitated the commission or concealment of the offense. Bernal and Martinez previously pleaded guilty for their roles in the racketeering and robbery conspiracies.  Guerrero resigned from the Chicago Police Department following his plea hearing.  Clay acknowledged that on Feb. 25, 2007, he, along with four other defendants, rode on a mission from Illinois to Griffith, Ind. While armed with three firearms, they were ordered to shoot to kill rival gang members who were attending a party. Once the two rival members  James Walsh and Gonzalo Diaz  left the party, several Latin Kings members, including Clay, rode up in a vehicle, and Clay and another defendant got out of the vehicle and shot and killed Walsh and Diaz. On April 22, 2009, Clay, along with two other defendants, drove to a rival gang neighborhood and caused the shooting death of Christiana Campos, a member of a rival gang.None  The case is being prosecuted by Joseph A. Cooley of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section and David J. Nozick of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Northern District of Indiana. Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew Porter of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Northern District of Illinois provided significant assistance.  The third superseding indictment is not evidence of guilt. The defendants who have not been convicted are innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.