The Justice Department announced it has filed a lawsuit against Encore Management Co. Inc., Perkins Parke Limited Partnership and three former employees of Perkins Parke Apartments in Cross Lanes, West Virginia, alleging that female tenants have been subjected to sexual harassment and retaliation in violation of the Fair Housing Act.The lawsuit, filed today in federal court for the Southern District of West Virginia, alleges that Perkins Parkes district manager, Anthony James, and maintenance worker, Christopher T. James, have sexually harassed female tenants at the complex, and that Perkins Parkes site manager, Kisha James, failed to take appropriate steps when residents complained about the harassment. The complaint alleges that such harassment has included entering the residences of female tenants without permission or notice; conditioning housing or housing benefits on female tenants agreement to engage in sexual acts; coercing female tenants to engage in unwelcome sexual acts; making unwelcome sexual comments and unwelcome sexual advances to female tenants; subjecting female tenants to unwanted sexual touching and other unwanted sexual acts; and taking adverse actions against female residents when they refused the sexual advances or reported the unwelcome conduct.No woman should have to live in fear of sexual harassment in her home, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta for the Civil Rights Division. The Fair Housing Act protects tenants from sexual harassment and retaliation by their landlords, and the Justice Department enforces the Fair Housing Act to vindicate these important rights.Safe and secure housing is one of humanitys most basic needs, said U.S. Attorney R. Booth Goodwin for the Southern District of West Virginia. Threats to that safety and security, such as those alleged in the complaint, and making housing available contingent upon the performance of unwelcome acts is both a violation of federal law and human decency and will not be tolerated.These housing providers preyed on poor women by sexually harassing them and retaliating against them, said Gustavo Velasquez, HUD Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity. HUD is committed to working with the Justice Department to stop this unacceptable and illegal behavior. The suit seeks monetary damages to compensate the victims, civil penalties, and a court order barring future discrimination.NoneThe complaint is an allegation of unlawful conduct. The allegations must be proven in federal court.