A former trooper with the Ohio State Highway Patrol was sentenced today in Columbus, Ohio, to 60 months in federal prison for coercing four female victims to engage in sexual acts in exchange for lenient treatment in connection with potential criminal cases and traffic tickets.Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Carter M. Stewart of the Southern District of Ohio, Special Agent in Charge Angela L. Byers of the FBIs Cincinnati Division, Superintendent of the Ohio State Highway Patrol (OSP) Colonel Paul A. Pride and Licking County Prosecutor Kenneth W. Oswalt made the announcement. U.S. District Judge Michael H. Watson of the Southern District of Ohio imposed the sentence.Bryan D. Lee, 31, of Lancaster, Ohio, pleaded guilty on Oct. 29, 2014, to four counts of violating the civil rights of female motorists and one count of engaging in cyber stalking. Lee served as an OSP Trooper from approximately January 2006 until October 2013. As part of his plea, Lee admitted that he violated the civil rights of four female victims by coercing them in his official capacity to commit sexual acts, some of which he photographed, in exchange for his agreement not to file criminal charges or issue traffic infractions against the victims or their friends. Lee further admitted that he engaged in sexual contact with certain victims while they were under arrest and restrained in handcuffs. Lee also harassed and threatened some of the victims, including sending threatening electronic messages to one individual who he pulled over twice during a one-month period.This case was investigated by the Columbus office of the FBIs Cincinnati Division and OSP. The case was prosecuted by Trial Attorney Edward P. Sullivan of the Criminal Divisions Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney J. Michael Marous of the Southern District of Ohio. Also assisting in the investigation was Fairfield County Special Prosecutor Martin Frantz.