Each year, as the anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks approaches, the country is reminded of the unprecedented losses suffered. The September 11th Victim Compensation Fund (VCF) acknowledges the important milestones reached in providing support to victims and families and is especially aware of the lives that continue to be affected. The anniversary is a time for the VCF to reaffirm its commitment to the important work that still lies ahead, and to maintain strong and steady progress as the VCF seeks to award compensation to those who continue to suffer. Today, the VCF releases its statistics report and informs the community on its outreach efforts.  None I am keenly aware that each and every one of these claims represents a life forever-changed, said VCF Special Master Rupa Bhattacharyya. I am also aware of the tremendous need for compensation that exists in the 9/11 community. We are committed to making improvements wherever possible in order to process claims as quickly and efficiently as possible, without compromising accuracy, thoroughness, or fairness. I am pleased to report that we continue to make progress in rendering decisions on the oldest claims, and are now issuing awards on claims filed in the later part of 2015. Our efforts to accelerate the speed of claims processing are ongoing and an absolute priority. None VCF Special Master Bhattacharyya added, The anniversary is always a time to look back and commemorate the lives lost or forever changed by 9/11. It is also a time to look forward and assure the members of the 9/11 community that they are not forgotten, and that as a nation, we are committed to providing help to those who need it. Im honored to be in a position to so directly serve this community, and, along with my dedicated and talented team, remain deeply committed to ongoing progress. The September 11th Victim Compensation Fund was created to provide compensation for any individual (or a personal representative of a deceased individual) who suffered physical harm or was killed as a result of the terrorist-related aircraft crashes of Sept. 11, 2001 or the debris removal efforts that took place in the immediate aftermath of those crashes. The original VCF operated from 2001 to 2004. On Jan. 2, 2011, President Obama signed into law the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act of 2010 (Zadroga Act). Title II of the Zadroga Act reactivated the Sept. 11th Victim Compensation Fund. The reactivated VCF opened in October 2011 and was authorized to operate for a period of five years, ending in October 2016. On Dec. 18, 2015, President Obama signed into law a bill reauthorizing the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act of 2010. This included the reauthorization of the VCF. The new law extends the VCF for five years, allowing individuals to submit their claims until Dec. 18, 2020. The law also includes some important changes to the VCFs policies and procedures for evaluating claims and calculating each claimants loss. None