A federal grand jury has indicted four MS-13 members today on charges in connection with their MS-13 gang activities, including violent crimes in aid of racketeering; use, carry and possession of a firearm during and in relation to a crime of violence; and conspiracy to commit murder in aid of racketeering. The indictment was announced by Acting Assistant Attorney General Kenneth A. Blanco of the Justice Departments Criminal Division; Acting U.S. Attorney Stephen M. Schenning for the District of Maryland; Special Agent in Charge Andre Watson of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations (ICE-HSI) Baltimore Office; Special Agent in Charge Daniel L. Board of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, Baltimore Office; Police Chief Tim Altomare of the Anne Arundel Police Department; State Attorney Wes Adams of the Anne Arundel States Attorney Office and Special Agent in Charge Gordon B. Johnson of the FBI Baltimore Field Office.Charged in the three-count indictment is Fermin Gomez-Jimenez, 20; Manuel Martinez-Aguilar, aka El Lunatic and Zomb, 19; Moises Alexis Reyes-Canales, aka Sicopita, 19; and Marlon Cruz-Flores, 22, all of Annapolis, Maryland.MS-13 is a national and transnational gang composed primarily of immigrants or descendants from El Salvador. Branches or cliques of MS-13, one of the largest street gangs in the United States, operate throughout Anne Arundel County, Prince Georges County, Montgomery County, and Frederick County, Maryland. MS-13 members are required to commit acts of violence to maintain membership and discipline within the gang. One of the principal rules of MS-13 is that its members must attack and kill rivals, known as chavalas, whenever possible.According to the indictment, on Oct. 23, 2016, the defendants conspired to and attempted to murder two victims in Annapolis, Maryland, for the purpose of gaining entrance to, maintaining, and increasing position in MS-13.All of the defendants are currently detained on related state criminal charges. Initial appearances have not yet been scheduled.An indictment is not a finding of guilt. An individual charged by indictment is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty at some later criminal proceedings. The investigation was conducted by HSI Baltimore, ATF Baltimore, Anne Arundel Police Department, Anne Arundel States Attorney Office, and the FBI. Trial Attorney Matthew Hoff of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Seema Mittal, as well as Special Assistant U.S. Attorney Samantha Mildenberg are prosecuting this case.