  WASHINGTON  The Department of Justice joined representatives from across the federal government to mark the progress made in modernizing the federal workforce hiring process over the past six months. In May, President Obama issued a memorandum that directed federal agencies to modernize how they hire employees by directing agencies to reduce the time it takes to hire an applicant, to begin accepting resumes and to simplify the overall hiring process.  As part of meeting the requirements outlined in the Presidents memo, the Department of Justice is providing managers and supervisors with new tools to help them in the hiring process, including online and classroom training for hiring managers. This will enable managers to be better equipped to hire quality candidates, the department said.  "The Department of Justice fully supports the Presidents effort to streamline and improve the hiring process," said Mari Barr Santangelo, Chief Human Capital Officer and Deputy Assistant Attorney General of the departments Justice Management Division. "Through a more efficient and user friendly hiring process, the Department of Justice will be better able to hire quality mission critical personnel such as those who carry out the departments important law enforcement mission."  The Department of Justice has a wide variety of employment opportunities, including crime lab technicians, prison guards, law enforcement agents, attorneys, secretaries, statisticians and budget analysts.  "Department of Justice hiring managers have worked aggressively with human resources to streamline vacancy announcements across all components. The streamlined announcements are the foundation to improving the federal recruitment and hiring process," said Karin OLeary, Budget Director of the Department of Justice. "Applicants must understand the process and the qualification requirementsits that simple. The new announcements provide an easy platform for our candidates to successfully compete for our positions."  Over the upcoming months, the department will continue to work with the U.S. Office of Personnel Management and the Office of Management and Budget to implement reforms in the hiring process.