NoneNoneNoneNoneOn Dec. 13, Paras Jha pleaded guilty in the District of New Jersey to violating the Computer Fraud & Abuse Act. Between November 2014 to September 2016, Jha executed a series of attacks on the networks of Rutgers University. Jhas attacks effectively shut down Rutgers Universitys central authentication server, which maintained, among other things, the gateway portal through which staff, faculty, and students delivered assignments and assessments. At times, Jha succeeded in taking the portal offline for multi-day periods, harming Rutgers University, its faculty, and its students.The Mirai and Clickfraud botnet schemes are powerful reminders that as we continue on a path of a more interconnected world, we must guard against the threats posed by cybercriminals that can quickly weaponize technological developments to cause vast and varied types of harm, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Cronan. The Criminal Division will remain constantly vigilant in combating these sophisticated schemes, prosecuting cybercriminals, and protecting the American people. Our world has become increasingly digital, and increasingly complex, said U.S. Attorney Schroder. Cybercriminals are not concerned with borders between states or nations, but should be on notice that they will be held accountable in Alaska when they victimize Alaskans in order to perpetrate criminal schemes. The U.S. Attorneys Office, along with our partners at the FBI and Department of Justices Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section (CCIPS), are committed to finding these criminals, interrupting their networks, and holding them accountable.Paras Jha has admitted his responsibility for multiple hacks of the Rutgers University computer system, said Acting U.S. Attorney Fitzpatrick. These computer attacksshut down the server used for all communications among faculty, staff and students, including assignment of course work to students, and students submission of their work to professors to be graded. The defendants actions effectively paralyzed the system for days at a time and maliciously disrupted the educational process for tens of thousands of Rutgers students. Today, the defendant has admitted his role in this criminal offense and will face the legal consequences for it.These cases illustrate how the FBI works tirelessly against the actions of criminals who use malicious code to cause widespread damage and disruptions to the general population, said FBI Assistant Director Smith. The FBI is dedicated to working with its domestic and international partners to aggressively pursue these individuals and bring justice to the victims. NoneNone