  WASHINGTON  Four men have pleaded guilty in the Southern District of Indiana for their participation in an international child pornography distribution ring, Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and First Assistant U.S. Attorney Josh Minkler of the Southern District of Indiana announced today.None  I applaud the work of the investigators and prosecutors on this case, who took a search warrant in Bloomington and successfully brought to justice defendants from all over the world, said First Assistant U.S. Attorney Minkler. More importantly, as a result of this 18 month operation, more than two dozen children here in Indiana and across the globe have been rescued from their tormentors.  Shaun Kuykendall, 32, of South Carolina; Richard Szulborski, 21, of Pennsylvania; Javahn Algere, 23, of Louisiana; and Jeremy Labrec, 22, of Texas, pleaded guilty yesterday before U.S. Judge Jane Magnus-Stinson. In addition, Kuykendall was sentenced to 25 years in prison, Szulborski was sentenced to 15 years in prison and Algere was sentenced to 12 years in prison. Labrec will be sentenced at a later date.  On Nov. 17, 2010, the FBI and state and local law enforcement partners executed a federal search warrant at David Bostics residence in Bloomington, Ind. Investigators determined that Bostic, 26, possessed hundreds of images and videos depicting children engaged in sexually explicit acts, and that he had actively distributed this child pornography to other individuals through various means. According to court documents, investigators also discovered that Bostic had produced child pornography on multiple occasions over the previous two years, creating sexually explicit images of four minor females, all of whom were between the ages of two months and three years, as well as a minor male who was four years old. Evidence gathered at the scene demonstrated that Bostic had distributed the images of child pornography he produced to multiple individuals.  Bostic was arrested Nov. 17, 2010, and pleaded guilty to multiple charges in June 2011. He was sentenced on Nov. 22, 2011, to 315 years in prison, one of the longest sentences in Southern District of Indiana.  Following Bostics arrest, a review of the evidence determined that Bostic was a member of a large group of individuals trading sexually explicit images of children, primarily focused on child pornography depicting children under five years of age.  According to court documents, some of the images produced by Bostic depicting Indiana children were distributed among the members of the group. Within days of Bostics arrest, Operation Bulldog was launched to identify and apprehend the members of the group. Since then, more than 20 members of the group have been apprehended in the United States and abroad.WASHINGTON  Four men have pleaded guilty in the Southern District of Indiana for their participation in an international child pornography distribution ring, Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and First Assistant U.S. Attorney Josh Minkler of the Southern District of Indiana announced today.None  I applaud the work of the investigators and prosecutors on this case, who took a search warrant in Bloomington and successfully brought to justice defendants from all over the world, said First Assistant U.S. Attorney Minkler. More importantly, as a result of this 18 month operation, more than two dozen children here in Indiana and across the globe have been rescued from their tormentors.  Shaun Kuykendall, 32, of South Carolina; Richard Szulborski, 21, of Pennsylvania; Javahn Algere, 23, of Louisiana; and Jeremy Labrec, 22, of Texas, pleaded guilty yesterday before U.S. Judge Jane Magnus-Stinson. In addition, Kuykendall was sentenced to 25 years in prison, Szulborski was sentenced to 15 years in prison and Algere was sentenced to 12 years in prison. Labrec will be sentenced at a later date.  On Nov. 17, 2010, the FBI and state and local law enforcement partners executed a federal search warrant at David Bostics residence in Bloomington, Ind. Investigators determined that Bostic, 26, possessed hundreds of images and videos depicting children engaged in sexually explicit acts, and that he had actively distributed this child pornography to other individuals through various means. According to court documents, investigators also discovered that Bostic had produced child pornography on multiple occasions over the previous two years, creating sexually explicit images of four minor females, all of whom were between the ages of two months and three years, as well as a minor male who was four years old. Evidence gathered at the scene demonstrated that Bostic had distributed the images of child pornography he produced to multiple individuals.  Bostic was arrested Nov. 17, 2010, and pleaded guilty to multiple charges in June 2011. He was sentenced on Nov. 22, 2011, to 315 years in prison, one of the longest sentences in Southern District of Indiana.  Following Bostics arrest, a review of the evidence determined that Bostic was a member of a large group of individuals trading sexually explicit images of children, primarily focused on child pornography depicting children under five years of age.  According to court documents, some of the images produced by Bostic depicting Indiana children were distributed among the members of the group. Within days of Bostics arrest, Operation Bulldog was launched to identify and apprehend the members of the group. Since then, more than 20 members of the group have been apprehended in the United States and abroad.None