The Department of Justice announced today that 24 pallets of timber seized by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) on December 20, 2015, at the Port of Houston, Texas for violation of the Lacey Act and customs law were destroyed in accordance with a settlement agreement reached by the United States and the importer of the timber, Oregon-based Popp Forest Products Inc. The agreement ensures that timber that the U.S. government maintains was harvested in violation of Peruvian law will not enter the U.S. stream of commerce.  The Lacey Act, which is the oldest wildlife protection law in the United States, prohibits importing, exporting, transporting, or receiving timber harvested in violation of foreign laws that regulate the harvesting of such timber. This is the first time the United States has taken such action under the Lacey Act, which was amended in 2008 to include timber products. We all have a stake in the sustainability of the worlds forests, which provide habitat for endangered wildlife, and mitigate global warming by drawing carbon from the atmosphere, among many other benefits, said John C. Cruden, Assistant Attorney General for the Environment and Natural Resources Division. The interdependence of the worlds ecosystems and natural resources is the foundation of the Lacey Act, the nations oldest environmental law. The law also provides us the tools to prevent illegally harvested timber from entering the U.S. marketplace and undercutting lawfully obtained products. We are pleased to have reached a settlement in this case, said Mark Dawson, Special Agent in Charge of HSI in Houston. HSI will continue to work with our foreign and domestic partners to ensure imports to the U.S. are conducted in accordance with U.S. laws and regulations.  The agreement reached between the United States and Popp Forest Products resolves allegations that the timber was harvested in Peru without proper authorization as required under Peruvian law or outside an approved zone. These allegations were based on a report HSI received from the Peruvian government under a Customs Mutual Assistance Agreement, providing the results of an inspection carried out in the areas in which the timber was allegedly harvested. According to the report, the timber could not be the species authorized for harvest. This finding was corroborated in testing by the U.S. Forest Services Forest Products Laboratory, which concluded that samples taken from the shipment were not the species authorized for harvest.  None The settlement is the result of a coordinated effort by the Environment and Natural Resource Divisions Wildlife and Marine Resources Section, HSI, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and Customs and Border Protection.  