    David Kalai and Nadav Kalai face additional charges after a federal grand jury in the Central District of California returned a second superseding indictment yesterday. The superseding indictment charged each with two counts of willfully failing to file a Report of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts (FBAR). In June 2012, the grand jury charged David Kalai, Nadav Kalai, and David Almog with conspiring to defraud the United States, the Department of Justice and Internal Revenue Service (IRS) announced today.      As alleged in the June 2012 superseding indictment, David Kalai and Nadav Kalai were principals of United Revenue Service Inc. (URS), a tax preparation business with 12 offices located throughout the United States. David Kalai worked primarily at URS former headquarters in Newport Beach, Calif., and later at URS location in Costa Mesa, Calif. Nadav Kalai, who is David Kalais son, worked out of URS headquarters in Bethesda, Md., as well as URS locations in Newport Beach and Costa Mesa. David Almog was the branch manager of the New York office of URS and supervised tax return preparers for URS East Coast locations.      U.S. citizens, resident aliens and legal permanent residents have an obligation to report to the IRS on Schedule B of the U.S. Individual Income Tax Return, Form 1040, whether they had a financial interest in, or signature authority over, a financial account in a foreign country in a particular year by checking Yes or No in the appropriate box and identifying the country where the account was maintained. They further have an obligation to report all income earned from the foreign financial account on the tax returns. Separately, U.S. citizens, resident aliens and permanent legal residents with a foreign financial interest in, or signatory authority over, a foreign financial account worth more than $10,000 in a particular year, must also file a FBAR with the Treasury disclosing such an account by June 30 of the following year.      The superseding indictment further alleged that the co-conspirators prepared false individual income tax returns which did not disclose the clients foreign financial accounts nor report the income earned from those accounts. In order to conceal the clients ownership and control of assets and conceal the clients income from the IRS, the co-conspirators incorporated offshore companies in Belize and elsewhere and helped clients open secret bank accounts at the Luxembourg locations of two Israeli banks referred to as Bank A and Bank B in court documents. Bank A is a large financial institution headquartered in Tel-Aviv, Israel, with branches worldwide. Bank B is a mid-size financial institution headquartered in Tel-Aviv, with a worldwide presence on four continents.     The indictment also alleged, the co-conspirators incorporated offshore companies in Belize and elsewhere to act as named account holders on the secret accounts at the Israeli banks. The co-conspirators then facilitated the transfer of client funds to the secret accounts and prepared and filed tax returns that falsely reported the money sent offshore as a false investment loss or a false business expense. The co-conspirators also failed to disclose the existence of, and the clients financial interest in, and authority over, the clients secret accounts and caused the clients to fail to file FBARs with the Department of the Treasury.      In addition to the earlier charges, yesterdays superseding indictment alleges that David Kalai and Nadav Kalai each failed to file a FBAR for calendar years 2008 and 2009 concerning a foreign account held at Bank A in Luxembourg. The second superseding indictment alleges that both David Kalai and Nadav Kalai had a financial interest, signature or other authority over a foreign financial account that had an aggregate value of more than $10,000 during 2008 and 2009.      If convicted, each defendant faces a maximum of five years in prison for each count and a maximum fine of $250,000 for each count. The charges contained in the indictment are only allegations. The defendants are presumed innocent and it is the governments burden to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.     Kathryn Keneally, Assistant Attorney General of the Justice Departments Tax Division, thanked Tax Division Trial Attorneys Christopher S. Strauss and Ellen M. Quattrucci, who prosecuted the case, and Assistant U.S. Attorney Sandra A. Brown of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Central District of California, who assisted with the prosecution. The case was investigated by special agents of IRS  Criminal Investigation.   