  WASHINGTON  Gaeton  Lucibello, 59, of Philadelphia, pleaded guilty today to participating in a  racketeering conspiracy involving extortion and illegal gambling, announced  Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Justice Departments Criminal  Division, U.S. Attorney Zane David Memeger of the  Eastern District of Pennsylvania and George Venizelos, Special Agent in Charge  of the FBIs Philadelphia Division.  At the plea hearing before U.S. District Judge Eduardo C. Robreno  of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, Lucibello pleaded guilty to conspiring  to conduct and participate in the affairs of the Philadelphia La Cosa Nostra  (LCN) Family through a pattern of racketeering activity. He admitted to the court that he assisted in  shaking down a bookmaker for street tax payments and operated two illegal  video poker machine businesses in furtherance of the racketeering conspiracy. His sentencing is scheduled for Nov. 26,  2012.  Lucibello  was among 14 members and associates of the Philadelphia LCN Family charged with  crimes involving racketeering conspiracy, extortion, loan sharking, illegal  gambling, witness tampering, and theft from an employee benefit plan in a third  superseding indictment returned by a federal grand jury in Philadelphia on July  25, 2012. The other defendants charged  in the 52-count third superseding indictment included Philadelphia LCN Family  boss Joseph Ligambi, Philadelphia LCN Family underboss Joseph Massimino, George  Borgesi, Martin Angelina, Anthony Staino Jr., Damion Canalichio, Louis  Barretta, Gary Battaglini, Robert Verrecchia, Eric Esposito, Robert Ranieri,  Joseph Licata and Louis Fazzini.  The  trial for Ligambi, Massimino, Borgesi, Angelina, Staino Jr., Canalichio,  Barretta, Battaglini, Licata and Fazzini is scheduled for Oct. 9, 2012. The trial for Verrecchia, Esposito and  Ranieri has not yet been scheduled.  Ligambi, Massimino, Borgesi, Angelina, Canalichio, Licata and Fazzini are  detained while awaiting trial. Staino  Jr., Barretta, Battaglini, Verrecchia, Esposito and Ranieri are free on bond  while awaiting trial.  The  case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney John S. Han of the Criminal  Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Frank  A. Labor III and Suzanne B. Ercole of the Eastern District of  Pennsylvania. Valuable prosecutorial  assistance was provided by the Pennsylvania Office of the Attorney General.  The case is being investigated by the FBI, the  Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation Division, the Pennsylvania  State Police, the New Jersey State Police, the Philadelphia Police Department,  and the U.S. Department of Labors Office of Inspector General Office of Labor  Racketeering and Fraud Investigations, and Employee Benefits Security  Administration. Additional assistance was provided by the New Jersey  Department of Corrections.