United States Sues Two Other Companies and Three Individuals for Similar ViolationsCardiovascular testing disease laboratories Health Diagnostics Laboratory Inc. (HDL), of Richmond, Virginia, and Singulex Inc., of Alameda, California, have agreed to resolve allegations that they violated the False Claims Act by paying remuneration to physicians in exchange for patient referrals and billing federal health care programs for medically unnecessary testing, the Department of Justice announced today. Under the settlements, which stem from three related whistleblower actions filed under the federal False Claims Act, HDL will pay $47 million and Singulex will pay $1.5 million. The government also intervened in the lawsuits as to similar allegations against another laboratory, Berkeley HeartLab Inc.; a marketing company, BlueWave Healthcare Consultants Inc., and its owners, Floyd Calhoun Dent and J. Bradley Johnson; and former CEO Latonya Mallory of HDL.Health care providers that attempt to profit by providing illegal inducements will be held accountable, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer for the Justice Departments Civil Division. We will continue to advocate for the appropriate use of Medicare funds and the proper care of our senior citizens.As alleged in the lawsuits, HDL, Singulex and Berkeley induced physicians to refer patients to them for blood tests by paying them processing and handling fees of between $10 and $17 per referral and by routinely waiving patient co-pays and deductibles. In addition, HDL and Singulex allegedly conspired with BlueWave to offer these inducements on behalf of HDL and Singulex. As a result, physicians allegedly referred patients to HDL, Singulex and Berkeley for medically unnecessary tests, which were then billed to federal health care programs, including Medicare.The Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce referrals of items or services covered by federally funded programs. The Anti-Kickback Statute is intended to ensure that a physicians medical judgment is not compromised by improper financial incentives and is instead based on the best interests of the patient.The District of South Carolina has more than doubled its resources allocated to the pursuit of fraud, including matters brought to our attention by whistleblowers, said U.S. Attorney Bill Nettles of the District of South Carolina. Whistleblower actions are a critical tool for holding health care providers accountable for fraudulent and abusive practices not only in South Carolina but nationwide.When health care companies pursue profits by paying kickbacks to doctors, they undermine a patients ability to trust that medical decisions are being made for scientific reasons, not financial ones, said Acting U.S. Attorney Vincent H. Cohen Jr. of the District of Columbia. Those kickbacks also harm the taxpayer because they drive up the cost of federal health care programs with medically unnecessary tests. This significant settlement shows our determination to work with whistleblowers and our federal partners to defend the integrity of the health care system from illegal agreements that hurt patients and taxpayers.As part of the settlements, HDL and Singulex have agreed to enter into separate corporate integrity agreements with the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General (HHS-OIG). Those agreements provide for procedures and reviews to be put in place to avoid and promptly detect conduct similar to that which gave rise to these settlements.Todays announcement that DOJ has settled in part and intervened in part in these whistleblower actions reflects the commitment by DOJ, our agency and our other law enforcement partners to ferret out alleged improper Medicare billings by health care companies that are looking to increase their profits at the expense of taxpayers, said Special Agent in Charge Derrick L. Jackson of the HHS-OIG Atlanta Regional Office.NoneTwo of the lawsuits separately allege that the former CEO Phillipe Goix of Singulex and Quest Diagnostics Inc., parent of Berkeley, are liable for the scheme; the government declined to intervene in the allegations against Goix and Quest.The governments actions illustrate its emphasis on combating health care fraud and marks another achievement for the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT) initiative, which was announced in May 2009 by the Attorney General and the Secretary of Health and Human Services. The partnership between the two departments has focused efforts to reduce and prevent Medicare and Medicaid financial fraud through enhanced cooperation. One of the most powerful tools in this effort is the False Claims Act. Since January 2009, the Justice Department has recovered a total of more than $23.9 billion through False Claims Act cases, with more than $15.2 billion of that amount recovered in cases involving fraud against federal health care programs.These matters were investigated by the Civil Divisions Commercial Litigation Branch, the U.S. Attorneys Offices of the District of South Carolina, the District of Columbia and the Middle District of North Carolina, HHS-OIG, the FBI, the U.S. Office of Personnel Managements Office of Inspector General, and the Department of Defenses Office of Inspector General Defense Criminal Investigative Service.None