Today, a federal judge barred Irving Brown Sr., a retired Chicago Fire Department captain, from preparing federal tax returns for others, the Justice Department announced. After a two-day bench trial in February, the court found that Brown Sr. of Chicago, Illinois, prepared and filed fraudulent tax returns for his customers, including Chicago Fire Department firefighters. The court found that Brown, Sr. operated a seasonal tax return preparation business out of his Chicago home called Irving Brown, Sr. Tax Services and prepared more than 1,600 federal tax returns from 2011 to 2015 either himself or with the assistance of others. The courts ruling noted that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) audited 94 returns prepared by Brown Sr. and found that all but two required an adjustment by the IRS. Based upon these audits, the total tax deficiency was more than $700,000, and the IRS projects that the tax loss is well in excess of $1 million, according to the courts findings. The court determined that Brown engaged in a variety of ways to underreport his customers tax liabilities, such as fabricating the existence of small businesses with high expenses and inflating itemized deductions in order to offset earned income on his customers tax returns. The court also determined that Brown Sr. routinely fabricated itemized deductions such as charitable contributions and unreimbursed employee expenses. For example, on one of his customers returns, Brown Sr. reported more than $3,000 in parking expenses as unreimbursed employee expenses when the customer did not drive to work or park any car at work. The court noted that this customer did not even have a car for that particular year. In addition to underreporting his customers tax liabilities, the court determined that Brown actively attempted to impede and obstruct the IRSs investigation into his preparation activities. For example, the court found that Brown offered to pay $3,000 towards a customers tax liability if the customer agreed not to turn Brown in or sign an affidavit implicating him. The court also determined that Brown provided customers with false receipts and blank work orders, which appeared to be written in the same handwriting, and instructed those customers to present those documents to the IRS in support of the fraudulent items reported on their returns. Acting Assistant Attorney General David A. Hubbert of the Justice Departments Tax Division thanked the revenue agent of the IRSSmall Business/Self-Employed Division, who conducted the investigation and Trial Attorneys Jordan A. Konig and Mary A. Stallings of the Tax Division, who litigated this case. None None