  WASHINGTON - Jeffrey Alan Wasley of Kennesaw, Ga., was sentenced today to 20 years in prison for producing child pornography through the surreptitious videotaping of young boys using public restrooms in Atlanta-area establishments, announced Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia Sally Quillian Yates.  Wasley pleaded guilty to production of child pornography before U.S. District Court Judge Clarence Cooper on March 16, 2010. According to court documents and proceedings, Wasley was a church youth counselor and former performing magician who followed young boys in retail stores and childrens attractions. Wasley admitted that when he observed young boys entering a restroom unaccompanied by an adult, he would also enter and secretly videotape the boys.  As described in court documents, in July 2008, Wasley victimized five and seven year-old brothers in the mens restroom of a store in Kennesaw, according to information filed with the court and discussed at the plea hearing. These boys reported Wasleys conduct to their mother, who in turn notified store security. According to court documents, store security and Cobb County police were able to identify a likely suspect from store surveillance footage. When store security observed this same individual in the store several days later, they followed him to his car and noted his cars tag number, which was linked to Wasley. A subsequent search of Wasleys home yielded a computer containing six videos Wasley admitted he produced of boys in public restrooms, along with thousands of additional images of child pornography that Wasley had downloaded from the Internet.  This case was investigated by the U.S. Secret Service and the Cobb County Police Department. This case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Robert McBurney and Francey Hakes of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Northern District of Georgia and Trial Attorney Andrew McCormack of the Criminal Divisions Child Exploitation and Obscenity Section.