Government Agencies and Non-Profits Collaborate to Launch Public Education Campaign The Justice Department, in coordination with the U.S. Postal Inspection Service (USPIS), the Department of the Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) and other law enforcement partners, today announced wide-ranging enforcement actions  including criminal charges, economic sanctions, seizure of criminal proceeds and civil injunction lawsuits  along with the execution of search warrants to combat a global network of mass mailing fraud schemes that collectively have defrauded millions of elderly and vulnerable victims across the United States out of hundreds of millions of dollars. Simultaneously, a consortium of government agencies and non-profit groups led by the departments Consumer Protection Branch and Elder Justice Initiative announced a public education campaign to heighten public awareness and educate potential victims and their families about these schemes.The actions announced today are part of a broader effort by the department and its international law enforcement partners to attack fraud schemes targeting older Americans and other vulnerable populations that involve individuals and entities across the globe, including Canada, France, India, the Netherlands, Singapore, Switzerland, Turkey and the United States.Every year, fraudulent mail schemes target millions of Americans with false promises of wealth and riches, swindling hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens, said Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch. Todays actions send a clear message that the Department of Justice is determined to hold the perpetrators of these harmful schemes accountable. And they make unmistakably clear that we are committed to protecting our people from exploitation  especially our older citizens, who are so often the focus of these shameful ruses. I want to thank our partners across the federal government for their assistance in bringing these actions, and I pledge the departments ongoing dedication to ending mail fraud.The law enforcement and civil injunction efforts announced today are just a part of our initiative, said Postal Services Chief Postal Inspector Guy Cottrell. We believe that consumer education is the best defense against these scammers. We cant arrest all of these con artists, so preventing the crime is critical.The mail schemes involve a complicated web of actors located across the world and each scheme follows a similar pattern. Fraudulent direct mailers create letters falsely claiming that the recipient has won, or will soon win, cash or valuable prizes, or otherwise will come into good fortune. In order to collect these benefits, the letters say that the recipients need only send in a small amount of money for a processing fee or taxes. The letters appear to come from legitimate sources, typically on official-looking letterhead, and  even though they are in reality identical form letters  the letters appear to be personally addressed. Some solicitations even use fonts that appear to be handwritten.Todays actions include both criminal and civil cases against multiple direct mailers who, collectively, are responsible for dozens of schemes involving tens of millions of dollars every year. In addition, todays actions also seek to shut down several other actors who work with the mailers to carry out these schemes: an India-based printer that manufactures the solicitations and arranges for bulk shipment to U.S. victims; list brokers who buy, sell or rent lists of victims from one mailer to another so that once a victim has fallen prey to one scheme, others are able to target this victim; and a Canadian payment processor that, for more than 20 years, has helped dozens of international fraudsters gain access to U.S. banks and take money from victims.The Civil Divisions Consumer Protection Branch is working with international and domestic law enforcement through the International Mass-Marketing Fraud Working Group to dismantle these complex frauds through both civil and criminal actions, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer, head of the Justice Departments Civil Division. And we will continue to work with federal partners and non-governmental organizations to educate the public about this threat to vulnerable consumers.The defendants targeted the elderly and vulnerable by selling false promises of cash and lavish prizes, said U.S. Attorney Robert L. Capers for the Eastern District of New York. Not surprisingly, the only good fortune befell the defendants. We will employ every available means, including educating consumers, to protect the public from these schemes.Actions against Canadian Payment ProcessorNoneIn addition, USPIS has sought and obtained a seizure warrant in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York for the funds in a PacNet U.S. bank account that is used to process payments received through fraudulent mailings. The matter is being investigated by the USPIS team assigned to the Consumer Protection Branch, in conjunction with the USPISs Newark Division, Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigations Newark Field Office and Homeland Security Investigations El Dorado Money Laundering Task Force.According to court filings made public today, PacNet has a 20-year history of engaging in money laundering and mail fraud, by knowingly processing payments on behalf of a wide range of mail fraud schemes that target victims in the United States and throughout the world. According to these records, in 2016 alone, PacNet has processed payments for the perpetrators of more than 100 different mail fraud campaigns, collectively involving tens of millions of dollars. In doing so, PacNet provides fraudsters in other countries with unfettered access to U.S. banks. The records also identify PacNet as the processor for each of the defendants named in the cases announced by the Department today.PacNet has knowingly facilitated the fraudulent activities of its customers for many years, and todays designations are aimed at shielding Americans and the nations financial system from the large-scale, illicit money flows that are generated by these scams against vulnerable individuals, said OFAC Acting Director John E. Smith. Treasury will continue to use its authorities to respond to the evolving nature of transnational organized crime.Criminal Charges and Civil Injunction Action Filed against Turkish Direct MailerNoneNoneCivil Action under the Anti-Fraud Injunction Statute against Swiss/Singaporean Direct Mailer, Indian Printer and Connecticut List BrokerNoneIn addition, the complaint names Macromark Inc., a Connecticut-based list broker that has marketed BDKs lead lists to third-party direct mailers, and Mary Ellen Meyer, 45, of Mahopac, New York, a Macromark client service manager. The complaint alleges that Macromark and Meyer have rented lead lists to BDK and other fraudulent direct mailers who Macromark and Meyer knew would use the lists to personalize and address hundreds of thousands of solicitation packets to potential victims across the United States. Macromark marketed the lead lists as containing the demographic information of individuals likely to send money in response to the solicitations. The lists collectively contained approximately 750,000 potential victim names and addresses, according to the complaint.Finally, the complaint names Mail Order Solutions India Pvt. Ltd. (MOSI), an India-based printer and distributor, and its principals, Dharti Desai, 49, of New York County and Mumbai, India, and Mehul Desai, also of Mumbai. As alleged in the complaint, MOSI and its principals have served as one of BDKs printer/distributors since at least 2005. MOSI designs, edits and proofreads BDKs solicitations, then lettershops them (folds, inserts and seals the various printed elements of the solicitations into mailing envelopes). MOSI prepares the letters for entry into the U.S. mail either as air freight to JFK (or another international airport) for delivery to a domestic mailing house, or by shipping the letters to Singapore, Fiji or Hungary for introduction via the foreign post. The complaint alleges that since 2013, MOSI has shipped at least 24.5 million solicitation packets to the United States.Civil Action under the Anti-Fraud Injunction Statute against New York Direct MailerNoneConsent Decree Entered against Dutch Caging ServiceNoneAlso on June 1, Dutch law enforcement agents executed search warrants on the business address used by both companies and on Dekkers home address. The Dutch authorities also took control of the Dutch P.O. boxes used by the defendants to receive victim funds. The coordinated U.S. and Dutch enforcement actions immediately stopped the use of Dutch P.O. boxes to receive payments from fraud victims. Further investigation revealed that Trends was providing caging services for the Barka and BDK schemes targeted in todays actions.Trends and Dekker agreed to settle the litigation and be bound by a consent decree of permanent injunction that prohibits them from performing caging services for prize or psychic mailing campaigns, or any other mailing campaign that misrepresents itself to consumers. The injunction also allows USPIS to intercept U.S. mail headed to the defendants, and to return that mail  along with any money being sent to the defendants  to U.S. victims.Criminal Charges against Nevada Mass MailerNoneThe indictment also charges Burke and a co-defendant, Michael Rossi, 51, of Las Vegas, with running a fraudulent telemarketing campaign that mirrored the mass-mailing campaign. Rossi was also arrested on Sept. 20. According to the indictment, telemarketers hired by Burke and Rossi falsely told consumers that they had been selected to receive a valuable prize worth thousands of dollars, and that they would receive the prize if they bought certain products. Burke and Rossi are charged with conspiracy, mail fraud and wire fraud in connection with telephone promotions.The indictment includes criminal contempt charges against Burke, which stem from a court order entered as part of a Federal Trade Commission (FTC) case brought in 1997, in which the FTC successfully obtained an order that barred Burke from misrepresenting material information to consumers. Criminal contempt of court has no statutory maximum penalty.In addition to the contempt charges, Burke and Rossi are each charged with 16 counts of wire fraud, five counts of mail fraud and one count of conspiracy. Each of these counts carries a statutory maximum penalty of 20 years in prison. The indictment also seeks forfeiture of criminal proceeds.FTC Action against California Mailer, Florida Printer and Florida List BrokerNoneNoneIowa Attorney General Actions against List Broker and Direct MailersNoneNoneNone* * *The charges and allegations in the indictments and criminal complaint are merely accusations, and the defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. The claims made in the civil complaints are allegations only, and there has been no determination of liability.Public EducationNoneIn addition, and as described in detail in the fact sheet, the government has also joined forces with non-governmental organizations in the elder justice and consumer protection arena, each of which will contribute to the public education campaign. These groups include AARP, Consumers Union, Consumer Federation of America, the Elder Justice Coalition, Meals on Wheels Association of America, National Adult Protection Services Association, National Association of Area Agencies on Aging (n4a), National Association of States United for Aging and Disabilities, National Center for Victims of Crime and National Consumers League. Using their vast networks and communication tools, these organizations will alert their members and the public to the scourge of mass mailing fraud schemes and offer tips to combat financial exploitation. Their tools include websites, newsletters, social media channels, training and outreach events and other means.U.S. law enforcements actions against mass-mailing fraud arise out of a larger worldwide effort. Mass-mailing fraud has been identified as a major financial threat by the International Mass-Marketing Fraud Working Group (IMMFWG), a network of civil and criminal law enforcement agencies from Australia, Belgium, Canada, Europol, the Netherlands, Nigeria, Norway, Spain, the United Kingdom and the United States. The IMMFWG is co-chaired by the U.S. Department of Justice and FTC, and law enforcement in the United Kingdom. Recent actions have been taken by law enforcement agencies from several working group countries, including Belgium, Canada, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, to disrupt mass mailing fraud schemes and gather evidence for prosecution of criminal participants. Through these efforts, the working group serves as a model for international cooperation against specific threats that endanger the financial well-being of each countrys residents.None