  Scott B.  Miserendino, Sr., 55, a former contractor for the United States Navy Military  Sealift Command, pleaded guilty today to accepting bribes and conspiring to  commit bribery.   Assistant  Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal  Division, U.S. Attorney Dana J. Boente of the Eastern District of Virginia,  Special Agent in Charge Robert  Craig of the Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS) Mid-Atlantic Field  Office, Special Agent in Charge Susan Triesch of the Naval Criminal  Investigative Service (NCIS) Norfolk Field Office, and Special Agent in Charge Royce E. Curtin of the  FBI Norfolk Field Office made the announcement today after Miserendino entered  his guilty plea before U.S. Magistrate Judge Douglas E. Miller of the Eastern  District of Virginia.   According to  a statement of facts filed with the plea agreement, Miserendino was a government  contractor at the Military Sealift Command, which is the leading provider of  transportation for the U.S. Navy.   In  that position, Miserendino worked closely with Kenny E. Toy, the former Afloat  Programs Manager for the N6 Command, Control, Communication, and Computer  Systems Directorate.   In approximately  November 2004, Miserendino and Toy initiated an extensive bribery scheme that  spanned five years, involved multiple coconspirators, including two companies,  and resulted in Miserendino and Toy receiving more than $265,000 in cash bribes,  among other things of value, in exchange for official assistance.   At his plea  hearing, Miserendino admitted that he solicited and accepted regular cash  bribes, as well as other things of value, from two Chesapeake, Virginia  contracting companies, referred to as Company A and Company B in court  documents, in exchange for providing favorable treatment to those companies in  connection with U.S. government contract work.    More specifically, Miserendino admitted that he accepted $3,000 in cash  bribes per month from various employees at Company A, including co-conspirators  Dwayne A. Hardman, Roderic J. Smith, Michael P. McPhail, and Adam C. White.    Miserendino also admitted that he,  along with Toy, accepted a cash bribe payment of $50,000 in May 2009, from  Company Bs founders, Hardman and Timothy S. Miller.   In addition  to the more than $265,000 in cash bribes, Miserendino also admitted that he and  Toy received other things of value, including flat screen televisions, laptop  computers, a vacation rental in Nags Head, North Carolina, a football helmet  signed by Troy Aikman, and softball bats.   According to  plea documents, in exchange for the bribes, Miserendino and Toy performed  various official acts to assist Company A and Company B.   Indeed, during the conspiracy, Company A  received approximately $3 million in business from the Military Sealift Command and Company B  received approximately $2.5 million in business.   As part of  his guilty plea, Miserendino also admitted to engaging in a scheme to conceal  his criminal activity, which involved Miserendino arranging for more than  $85,000 to be paid to one of his co-conspirators, Hardman, in an attempt to  prevent Hardman from reporting the bribery scheme to law enforcement  authorities.   Miserendino  is scheduled to be sentenced on November 7, 2014.   Earlier this  year, five other individuals pleaded guilty in connection with the bribery  scheme.   On Feb. 12, 2014, Toy pleaded  guilty to bribery, and he was sentenced on July 29, 2014, to 96 months in prison  and ordered to forfeit $100,000.   On  Feb. 18, 2014, Hardman, the co-founder of Company A and Company B, pleaded  guilty to bribing Toy and Miserendino, and he was sentenced on July 9, 2014, to  96 months in prison and ordered to forfeit $144,000.   On Feb. 19, 2014, Michael P. McPhail pleaded  guilty to conspiracy to commit bribery, and he was sentenced on Aug. 5, 2014, to  36 months in prison and ordered to forfeit $57,000.   On March 5, 2014, Smith, the co-founder and  former president of Company A, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit bribery,  and he was sentenced on June 23, 2014, to 48 months in prison and ordered to  forfeit $175,000.   On April 4, 2014,  White, a former vice president of Company A, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to  commit bribery, and he was sentenced on July 11, 2014, to 24 months in prison  and ordered to forfeit $57,000.   The  remaining defendant, Timothy S. Miller, a businessman who sought contracting  business from the Military Sealift Command, is charged with one count of  conspiracy to commit bribery and two counts of bribery.   Millers t rial is scheduled for Sept. 30, 2014, before  Chief Judge Smith.   The case was  investigated by the FBI, NCIS, and DCIS.    The case was prosecuted by Trial Attorney Emily Rae Woods of the Criminal  Divisions Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Stephen W.  Haynie of the Eastern District of Virginia.