A manufacturer and exporter of wind turbines based in the Peoples Republic of China was convicted today of stealing trade secrets from AMSC, a U.S.-based company formerly known as American Superconductor Inc., announced Acting Assistant Attorney General John P. Cronan of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney Scott C. Blader for the Western District of Wisconsin.  Following an 11-day trial, a jury sitting in Madison, Wisconsin, convicted Sinovel Wind Group Co. Ltd., dba Sinovel Wind Group (USA) Co. Ltd. (Sinovel) of conspiracy to commit trade secret theft, theft of trade secrets, and wire fraud. Sentencing is set for June 4. Sinovel nearly destroyed an American company by stealing its intellectual property, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Cronan. As todays jury verdict demonstrates, this type of conduct, by any corporation  anywhere  is a crime, and wont be tolerated. The Department is dedicated to helping foster innovation and growth in our economy by deterring and punishing intellectual property theft from American companies.  Todays verdict sends a strong and clear message that the theft of ideas and ingenuity is not a business dispute; its a crime and will be prosecuted as such, said U.S. Attorney Blader. Sinovels illegal actions caused devastating harm to AMSC. I commend the efforts of the investigation and prosecution team, and reaffirm the commitment of this office to protect American commerce and prosecute those who would seek to steal intellectual property.  As proven at trial, Sinovel stole proprietary wind turbine technology from AMSC in order to produce its own turbines powered by the stolen intellectual property. AMSC developed the technology  software that regulates the flow of electricity from wind turbines to electrical grids  in Wisconsin and elsewhere. At the time of the theft in March 2011, Sinovel had contracted with AMSC for more than $800 million in products and services to be used for the wind turbines that Sinovel manufactured, sold, and serviced.  Sinovel was charged on June 27, 2013, along with Su Liying, the deputy director of Sinovels Research and Development Department; Zhao Haichun, a technology manager for Sinovel; and Dejan Karabasevic, a former employee of AMSC Windtec Gmbh, a wholly-owned subsidiary of AMSC. The evidence presented at trial showed that Sinovel conspired with the other defendants to obtain AMSCs copyrighted information and trade secrets in order to produce wind turbines and to retrofit existing wind turbines with AMSC technology without paying AMSC the more than $800 million it was owed and promised. Through Su and Zhao, Sinovel convinced Karabasevic, who was head of AMSC Windtecs automation engineering department in Klagenfurt, Austria, to leave AMSC Windtec, to join Sinovel, and to steal intellectual property from the AMSC computer system by secretly downloading source code on March 7, 2011, from an AMSC computer in Wisconsin to a computer in Klagenfurt. Sinovel then commissioned several wind turbines in Massachusetts and copied into the turbines software compiled from the source code stolen from AMSC. The U.S.-based builders of these Massachusetts turbines helped bring Sinovel to justice. Su and Zhao are Chinese nationals living in China, and Karabasevic is a Serbian national who lived in Austria, but now lives in Serbia.  According to evidence presented at trial, following the theft, AMSC suffered severe financial hardship. It lost more than $1billion in shareholder equity and almost 700 jobs, over half its global workforce. The case was investigated by the FBIs Madison, Milwaukee, and Boston Offices; the FBI Legal Attachs Offices in Vienna, Austria and Beijing; the FBI Criminal Investigative Division; the FBI Intellectual Property Rights program; the Bundeskriminalamt (Federal Criminal Intelligence Service) and the Bundesministerium Fuer Justiz (Federal Ministry of Justice) in Austria; the Landeskriminalamt - Klagenfurt and the Staatsanwaltschaft - Klagenfurt (Criminal Investigative Police and State Prosecutors Office  Klagenfurt, Austria); and with the assistance of the Justice Departments Office of International Affairs and the Cybercrime Laboratory of the Criminal Divisions Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section (CCIPS).  Senior Counsel Brian L. Levine of CCIPS and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Timothy M. OShea and Darren Halverson for the Western District of Wisconsin prosecuted the case, with substantial assistance from CCIPS Trial Attorney Joss Nichols and Digital Investigative Analyst Laura Peterson.  None