None   The report, based on data  compiled from the case management system used by U.S. Attorneys Offices (USAO),  shows prosecutors in 2013 continued to bring substantial numbers of cases to  federal court (a 34 percent increase over FY 2009 numbers) and prosecute a  substantial majority of all cases referred to them.   Of the cases that were declined for federal  prosecution, most were declined for insufficient evidence or because they were  referred to another prosecuting authority, such as the tribe, for potential  prosecution.   As detailed in this report, the  Department of Justice is making good on our commitment to strengthen cooperation  with sovereign tribes, reduce violent crime, and ensure justice for every  individual, said Attorney General Eric Holder.  From our work to empower  Indian women under the landmark Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act, to  the task force we established to safeguard children in Indian country from  violence and abuse, we have made significant strides  in close partnership with  tribal nations  to bolster the safety and security of all American Indian and  Alaska Native communities.   As we move forward, we will continue to expand on  this critical work; to deepen our ongoing efforts; and to reaffirm our  dedication to the promise of equal rights, equal protection, and equal justice  for all.   Although declination rates are an  imperfect means of evaluating the effectiveness of criminal justice in Indian  country or elsewhere, the report shows that with few exceptions, areas where the  largest populations of American Indian people live and suffer from the most  serious crime rates, such as the Southwest and the northern plains states (which  together handled approximately 70 percent of the 2,542 cases resolved in 2013),  federal declination rates were the lowest in the nation.   For instance, South Dakota had the second to  highest number of cases resolved in the country last year, 470 cases, and one of  the lowest declination rates of 26 percent.   Arizona resolved the highest number of cases,  733 cases, and had a declination rate of 28 percent.   Associate Attorney General Tony  West announced the findings in remarks to the Four Corners Indian Country  Conference today on the Navajo Nation in Flagstaff, and met separately with the  Attorney Generals advisory subcommittee on Native American issues to discuss  the report, among other matters.   We are witnessing an  unprecedented era of collaboration among U.S. Attorneys offices and tribal law  enforcement and prosecutors across the country, said Associate Attorney General  West.   This report shows the fruits of  this continuing partnership between the federal government and American Indian  tribes, including enhancing training and capacity building for tribal court  systems and improving responses to victims in Indian country.   Over the past five years, the  Justice Department and our tribal partners have taken important steps forward on  our journey toward a safer Indian Country, said Timothy Purdon, U.S. Attorney  for the District of North Dakota and chair of the Attorney Generals advisory  subcommittee on Native American issues.    Vigorous enforcement of federal laws is vitally important to strengthening  public safety on American Indian reservations.   We are pleased to see in this report that  U.S. Attorneys Offices across the country continue to work hard to remove the  most dangerous offenders and work closely with tribal law enforcement and  prosecutors.  These promising numbers are the direct result of this enhanced  communication and collaboration.   The FBI continues to be committed  to public safety in Indian Country, said FBI Assistant Director Joseph S.  Campbell. Our partnership with federal, state, local, and tribal agencies  remains strong as we continue to aggressively address violent crime and  victimization in tribal communities.  The information contained in the  report shows the following:   The most common reason FBI Indian  country investigations were closed administratively without referral for  prosecution was that the investigation concluded that no federal crime had  occurred.   Other important developments in FY  2013: None NoneNone None NoneNoneNone None None