Ten alleged members of the violent Almighty Imperial Gangsters Nation gang have been indicted by a federal grand jury in the Southern District of Florida for their roles in various murders in Miami, Chicago, and East Chicago. Fifteen alleged members of the gang have now been charged by the Justice Department in this case.Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Wifredo A. Ferrer of the Southern District of Florida, Special Agent in Charge Robert J. Holley of the FBIs Chicago Field Office, and Special Agent in Charge George L. Piro of the FBIs Miami Field Office made the announcement.The second superseding indictment returned by a federal grand jury on Oct. 9, 2014, and unsealed today, charges Robert Martinez, aka Trap, 20, of Miami, along with Rogelio Perez, aka Popeye, 40, Eddie Camacho, aka NeNe, 35, Miguel Pedraza, aka Fuzzy, 33, Ryan Perez, aka Lil Dk, 32, Carlos Mena, aka Rollo, 33, Carlos Gomez, aka Lokes, 35, and Guillermo Sinisterra, aka Memo, 26, all of Chicago, with conspiracy to participate in racketeering activity, including murder. Piero Benitez, aka Bam Bam, 27, of Skokie, Illinois, was charged with murder in aid of racketeering, and Santiago Salcedo, aka Chino, 25, of Miami, was charged with conspiracy to commit murder in aid of racketeering. Alleged fellow gang members Jose Herrera, aka Spyro, 27, Leonel Carrera, aka Leo, 25, Victor Lopez, aka Magic, Ramon Madruga, aka Porky 28, and Alex Enrique Somarriba, aka A-Rock, 28, all of Chicago, were previously charged in the superseding indictment unsealed in this case on Aug. 4, 2014, and remain charged in the second superseding indictment.NoneThe charges contained in the indictment are merely accusations, and the defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.This case is being investigated by the FBI field offices in Chicago, Miami, and Merrillville, Indiana, and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives field office in Merrillville, Indiana, along with the Miami-Dade Police Department, the City of Miami Police Department, the Chicago Police Department, the Franklin Park, Illinois, Police Department, and the East Chicago, Indiana Police Department. The Florida Department of Corrections and the Broward County Sheriffs Office also assisted with this case.The case is being prosecuted by Joseph A. Cooley and Rebecca A. Staton of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section, as well as the Forfeiture Section of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of Florida, with the assistance of the U.S. Attorneys Offices for the Northern District of Indiana and the Northern District of Illinois, as well as the State Attorneys Offices for Miami-Dade and Broward Counties in Florida and Cook County in Illinois.