The Department of Justice announced today that a federal grand jury in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Georgia returned indictments charging four law enforcement officers with civil rights violations and obstruction of justice in connection with an incident that occurred at Bainbridge BikeFest in 2012. A seven count indictment was returned charging former Grady County Sheriffs Deputy Wiley Griffin IV and Decatur County Sheriffs Office Captain Elizabeth Croley with violating an individuals civil rights. Additionally, Croley, Decatur County Sheriffs Deputy Christopher Kines and former Decatur County Sheriffs Deputy Robert Wade Umbach were charged with obstructive conduct relating to the investigation into the civil rights violation. The indictment charges that Griffin used excessive force during the arrest of a civilian, A.P., at the Bainbridge BikeFest motorcycle event in Bainbridge, Georgia, on Sept. 15 to 16, 2012, thereby violating A.P.s civil rights. As a result of the assault, A.P. sustained injuries to his face, including cuts, bleeding, swelling and bruising. The indictment also charges Croley, Kines and Umbach with writing false reports to cover up the assault. In addition, Kines and Umbach were charged with making misleading statements to the FBI to obstruct the agencys investigation into the use of force against A.P. In addition, the indictment charges Croley with violating A.P.s constitutional right to a fair trial by intentionally withholding material exculpatory evidence from the District Attorneys office, and, in turn, from A.P.s criminal defense attorney, during prosecution of A.P. arising from the arrest at BikeFest. The civil rights charge against Griffin carries a statutory maximum sentence of 10 years in prison. The civil rights charge against Croley carries a statutory maximum sentence of one year in prison. Additionally, Croley, Kines and Umbach face a statutory maximum sentence of 20 years in prison for their falsification of reports, and Umbach and Kines face a statutory maximum sentence of 20 years in prison for making misleading statements to obstruct justice. This case is being investigated by the FBI and is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Christine M. Siscaretti and Risa Berkower of the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division, with support from the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Middle District of Georgia. An indictment is a formal accusation of criminal conduct, not evidence of guilt. The defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.