In a Dec. 29, 2015, order, the U.S. District Court for the District of Oregon approved a settlement agreement between the Justice Department, a class of private plaintiffs and the state of Oregon, which resolved the departments and the class plaintiffs claims against the state under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). The agreement will impact approximately 7,000 Oregonians with intellectual and developmental disabilities (I/DD) who can and want to work in typical employment settings in the community. The private plaintiffs were represented by the Center for Public Representation, Disability Rights Oregon and the law firms of Miller Nash Graham & Dunn LLP and Perkins Coie LLP. The agreement resolves a class action lawsuit by private plaintiffs in which the department intervened. The parties settlement agreement was approved by U.S. Magistrate Judge Janice Stewart of the District of Oregon, who presided over the lawsuit.NoneThe agreement calls for 1,115 people in sheltered workshops to receive jobs in the community at competitive wages over the next seven years. In addition, 7,000 people will receive employment services that will afford them the opportunity to work in the community, including at least 4,900 youth ages 14 to 24 years old, who are exiting school. At least half of the youth served will receive an Individual Plan of Employment, which sets forth the services and supports necessary to achieve competitive employment, from Oregons vocational rehabilitation system.NoneWork is fundamental to contributing to and being fully included in the community, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta, head of the Civil Rights Division. People with disabilities deserve opportunities to work alongside their friends, peers and neighbors without disabilities and to earn fair wages, access equal opportunities for advancement and to achieve social and economic independence. We are pleased that the state of Oregon has fully embraced integrated employment services for people with disabilities, and we look forward to seeing the ways in which thousands of Oregonians with intellectual and developmental disabilities will contribute, grow and advance in typical workplaces throughout the state.Individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilitiesare valuable members of our community, said U.S. Attorney Billy J. Williams of the District of Oregon. They contribute to our workforce, our diversity, and they enrich our environment. We have an obligation to remove barriers to their full participation in society. The final approval of the settlement agreement by the court is a great step toward ensuring that sheltered workshops in Oregon will no longer be used to unnecessarily segregate the intellectually and developmentally disabled.NoneNone