    A jury convicted Attleboro, Mass., licensed stockbroker, insurance agent and financial advisor Kevin P. Mahoney today on tax and contempt of court charges, the Justice Department and Internal Revenue Service (IRS) announced. Trial began on Jan. 23, 2012, before U.S. District Judge Joseph Tauro, sitting in Boston. Mahoney was charged with one count of corruptly endeavoring to obstruct the administration of the Internal Revenue laws, eight counts of contempt of court and eight counts of filing false tax returns. He was convicted of all counts.    The evidence at trial showed that Mahoney had failed to pay all of his taxes for the years 1996 through 2001, leading the IRS to assess Mahoney for taxes, interest and penalties for some of those years. Mahoney had attempted to pay these tax-related debts by submitting to the IRS more than $2.2 million in fake financial instruments called Bills of Exchange and checks drawn on a closed bank account. In addition, after filing for bankruptcy, Mahoney caused a worthless promissory note made by another individual to be submitted to the IRS as purported payment for approximately $805,000 in taxes that Mahoney owed to the IRS.    The evidence also showed that Mahoney had submitted to the IRS false individual income tax returns for the years 2000 through 2006 that he knew failed to report more than $1.3 million in taxable income received from various financial institutions. Along with his tax returns, Mahoney had submitted altered IRS Forms 1099-MISC on which he changed to zero the amount of non-employee compensation that the financial institutions reported paying him. For instance, Mahoney attached to his 2006 tax return an altered Form 1099-MISC in which he claimed that a life insurance company paid him non-employee compensation of zero when it had actually paid him approximately $73,000. Mahoney also filed a false 2007 Nonresident Alien Tax Return in which he falsely claimed a refund of almost $389,000.      According to evidence at trial, the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts had permanently enjoined Mahoney in July 2002 from, among other things, engaging in conduct that interfered with the administration of the Internal Revenue laws. The injunction proceedings were brought against Mahoney in accordance with a lawsuit filed by the Justice Departments Tax Division. Mahoney committed criminal contempt by violating the permanent injunction by assisting in the preparation and submission to the IRS of income tax returns for other people that falsely claimed more than $50 million dollars in refunds based on false IRS Forms 1099-OID and an IRS Form 1099-C falsely reporting $300 million in debt purportedly owed to a third party by an IRS employee.    The case was investigated by Special Agents from IRS - Criminal Investigation and was prosecuted by Tax Division Trial Attorneys Jeffrey McLellan and Kenneth Vert.    Additional information about the Tax Division and its enforcement efforts may be found at www.justice.gov/tax.