The Justice Department filed a joint motion today for entry of a landmark consent decree to resolve allegations that the Law School Admission Council (LSAC) engaged in widespread and systemic discrimination in violation of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). Under the proposed consent decree, LSAC will pay $7.73 million in penalties and damages to compensate over 6,000 individuals nationwide who applied for testing accommodations on the Law School Admission Test (LSAT) over the past five years. The decree also requires comprehensive reforms to LSACs policies and ends its practice of flagging, or annotating, LSAT score reports for test takers with disabilities who receive extended time as an accommodation. These reforms will impact tens of thousands of test takers with disabilities for years to come. None This landmark agreement compels systemic reforms to LSACs treatment of test takers with disabilities and brings an end to LSACs stigmatizing practice of flagging the score reports of individuals with disabilities who require certain testing accommodations, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Jocelyn Samuels for the Civil Rights Division. If entered by the court, this decree will impact tens of thousands of Americans with disabilities, opening doors to higher education that have been unjustly closed to them for far too long. We congratulate LSAC for signing this agreement, which will compensate victims of past discrimination and provide a model for the provision of testing accommodations to test takers with disabilities on standardized examinations. The participation of the U.S. Attorneys Office in this important litigation sends a strong message that no discrimination of any kind will be tolerated in this district, said U.S. Attorney Melinda Haag for the Northern District of California. We are fully committed to ensuring equal access to all opportunities society has to offer, including education. Under the consent decree, LSAC has agreed to:     Individuals who applied for testing accommodations from LSAC between Jan. 1, 2009, andMay20, 2014,may be eligible to receive a monetary award from a nationwide victims compensation fund. The claims administrator for the fund has not yet been determined; this information will be posted on LSACs website following entry of the consent decree by the court. Questions about the victims compensation fund should be directed to the claims administrator. None