None       Hermelin pleaded guilty to two misdemeanor violations of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (FDCA). In a plea agreement that was submitted to the court, Hermelin admitted that KV introduced misbranded morphine sulfate tablets into interstate commerce in 2007 and 2008. Morphine sulfate is a pain relief drug and opiate. The government charged that the morphine sulfate discussed in the plea agreement included some oversized tablets, which contained more active ingredient of the drug morphine than was specified in its labeling. This made the morphine sulfate misbranded under federal law, according to the court documents.       In May 2008, KV received complaints about oversized morphine sulfate tablets, according to court documents. An oversized tablet discovered by a pharmacist in California weighed twice as much as a normal pill. An oversized tablet found by a Canadian drug distributor was approximately 65 percent heavier than a normal pill. Both oversized tablets had been made on BB2 pill press machines, which KV used to make many other tablet drugs. In June 2008, KV disclosed the discovery of the oversized morphine sulfate tablets to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and publicly recalled various morphine sulfate lots. At the same time, the government alleged that although KV knew of other oversized, BB2-made tablets and that its BB2 machine could randomly produce some oversized tablets, the company did not inform FDA of the other oversized tablets.       Hermelin also served as an officer of Ethex Corporation, a KV subsidiary that branded and distributed generic drugs, according to court documents. The government charged that by virtue of his roles at KV and Ethex, Hermelin was a responsible corporate officer with the authority and responsibility to prevent and correct FDCA violations at both companies. None       In another related case, in March 2010, the Justice Department filed criminal charges against Ethex, which pleaded guilty to two felony offenses as a result of its failure to file required reports with the FDA concerning certain oversized drug tablets. Ethex was ordered to pay $28.1 million in fines, forfeitures and restitution, and was placed on probation for five years.       We will hold corporate executives responsible when company profits are pursued at the expense of consumer safety, said Tony West, Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Civil Division.       FDAs drug-labeling laws and regulations are designed to ensurethat Americans can safely consume effective drug products, said Special Agent-in-Charge Patrick Holland, FDAs Office of Criminal Investigations.We will continue to work with the U.S. Attorneys Office and the Department of Justice to investigate thosecompanies and individuals whoparticipate in the distribution ofmisbranded drugs, he added.       The Hermelin case was investigated by the FDAs Office of Criminal Investigations, with assistance from the FBI and the U.S. Postal Inspection Service. The case was prosecuted by the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of Missouri and the Justice Departments Office of Consumer Litigation. Additional assistance was provided by the FDAs Office of Chief Counsel.