The Department of Justice announced today that it has filed its complaint in intervention in a case against defendants Sikorsky Aircraft Corporation and two of its subsidiaries, Sikorsky Support Services Inc. and Derco Aerospace Inc., for violating the False Claims Act. Sikorsky Aircraft Corporation is a wholly owned subsidiary of United Technologies Corporation, with headquarters in Stratford, Connecticut.The governments complaint alleges that Sikorsky Aircraft Corporation approved an illegal cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost subcontract between Sikorsky Support Services Inc., and Derco Aerospace. A cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost contract is one where the cost of performance is unknown in advance and compensation is determined based on the cost of performance plus an agreed-to percentage of such costs. Such contracts are prohibited because they give contractors no incentive to control the cost of performance. The complaint further alleges the defendants used this illegal subcontract to overcharge the Navy on parts and materials that were used to maintain Navy aircraft.Those who contract with the federal government and accept taxpayer dollars, must follow the rules, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Joyce R. Branda for the Justice Departments Civil Division. Todays complaint demonstrates, once again, that the Department of Justice will not tolerate contractors who engage in schemes to defraud the armed forces or any other agency of the United States.The claims in the civil complaint that we have filed reflect our focused and purposeful investigative work in identifying and seeking remedies for false claims in government contracting, said U.S. Attorney James L. Santelle for the Eastern District of Wisconsin. Under the authority of the False Claims Act, we pursue fraud of this sort to ensure that taxpayer dollars are spent lawfully and that overcharges and other types of contracting misconduct are addressed.NoneThe case is being handled jointly by the Civil Division and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of Wisconsin.None