NoneEnsuring equal access to justice is an essential part of our work to empower the most vulnerable members of our society, said Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch. Many vital efforts -- from preventing human trafficking to improving access to health benefits  depend on citizens ability to receive meaningful legal aid. The White House Legal Aid Interagency Roundtable was established to help close the justice gap and provide legal assistance to Americans in need. It is a privilege to send this report to President Obama. It describes the progress we have made, and it lays out a vision for this critical work in the years to come.The White House Legal Aid Interagency Roundtable has become indispensable in helping the federal government establish partnerships with legal aid providers that push federal programming forward and ensure that essential services reach the communities that need them most, said Cecilia Muoz, White House DPC Director and WH-LAIR Co-Chair.Civil legal aid is free legal assistance to low-income and underserved people with often life-altering legal problems, including domestic violence, child support, foreclosure, eviction, unemployment and debt, among other issues. Legal aid also helps people access basic necessities such as health care, housing, government benefits, employment and educational services. Civil legal aid is particularly vital because unlike criminal cases where there is typically a constitutional right to counsel, there is no right to a lawyer in most civil cases, leaving many low- and moderate-income Americans without any legal assistance. NoneNoneThe report addresses key federal priorities where civil legal aid improves program outcomes: accessing health services and improving health, expanding access to housing and preventing homelessness, strengthening families and keeping children in school, keeping Americans working and getting jobs, enhancing public safety and helping crime victims, and combatting fraud and protecting consumers. It also describes agencies efforts to partner with legal aid organizations to meet the needs of special populations, including veterans and servicemembers, tribes and tribal members, people with disabilities, people with criminal records, immigrants and disaster survivors. The report includes research and data on the efficacy of legal aid and provides numerous examples of how WH-LAIR agencies work has touched millions of Americans.None