None   According to a one-count felony charge filed on May 7, 2012, in the U.S. District Court in San Francisco, William W. Lord, the owner of Carpinteria, Calif.-based Chefs Choice Mesquite Charcoal, participated in a conspiracy with competitors to refrain from competing for each others customers and to submit noncompetitive bids for the sale of mesquite charcoal. According to the plea agreement, Lord has agreed to cooperate with the departments ongoing investigation. None   Chefs Choice distributes and sells mesquite charcoal throughout the United States. Mesquite charcoal, which is typically used by restaurants and individuals to grill meat, fish and poultry, is primarily produced in Mexico and then sold to distributors in the United States for eventual resale to restaurants and consumers.   According to court documents, the charged conspiracy began as early as January 2000 and lasted until about September 2010. Lord and his competitors, a Los Angeles-area mesquite charcoal distributor and a San Francisco-area mesquite charcoal distributor, entered into an agreement to refrain from competing for the sale of mesquite charcoal to each others customers. The purpose of this agreement was to ensure that Lord and his competitors would not have to reduce mesquite charcoal prices in the face of competition in order to retain their customers. Lord and his competitors carried out the conspiracy in various ways, including: refraining from submitting bids for the sale of mesquite charcoal to each others customers; submitting intentionally noncompetitive bids to each others customers; and communicating with each other regarding what price to bid and then submitting agreed-upon, noncompetitive bids to each others customers.   Lord is charged with violating the Sherman Act, which carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $1 million fine for individuals. The maximum fine may be increased to twice the gain derived from the crime or twice the loss suffered by the victim of the crime if either of those amounts is greater than the statutory maximum fine. None