  The Justice Department filed a lawsuit today against the city of Meridian, Miss.; Lauderdale County, Miss.; judges of the Lauderdale County Youth Court; and the state of Mississippi alleging that the defendants systematically violate the due process rights of juveniles.    None    The department is bringing this lawsuit to ensure that all children are treated fairly and receive the fullest protection of the law, said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division.    It is in all of our best interests to ensure that children are not incarcerated for alleged minor infractions, and that police and courts meet their obligations to uphold childrens constitutional rights.   The department issued findings on Aug. 10, 2012 after a comprehensive investigation that began in December 2011.   The department found reasonable cause that the defendants were violating Section 14141 of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, which prohibits a pattern or practice of deprivation of civil rights in the administration of juvenile justice .   In its findings letter, the department stated its willingness to engage in meaningful negotiations to remedy the identified violations, but defendants did not timely engage in such negotiations.   It is disappointing that the local and state government agencies involved in the administration of juvenile justice in Lauderdale County have not worked cooperatively with the Justice Department to resolve these violations, said Gregory Davis, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Mississippi.   The U.S. Attorneys Office is committed to making sure that children in the Lauderdale County juvenile justice system are treated in accordance with the Constitution.      This investigation was conducted by the Civil Rights Divisions Special Litigation Section, working in conjunction   with the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of Mississippi.   The Civil Rights Divisions Educational Opportunities Section also has a long-standing school desegregation case against the Meridian Public School District. The district is currently working cooperatively with the department to resolve issues in that case.   The Justice Department, including U.S. Attorney Gregory Davis and Deputy Assistant Attorney General Roy Austin, will be hosting a telephonic community conference call open to members of the public on Thursday, Oct. 25 from 7:30  8:30 p.m. CDT.   The purpose of this call is to provide community members with information about the investigation and complaint.   To participate in the call, dial the following toll-free number: 888-989-9731 and when prompted by the operator, provide your name and the pass code: 7015490. None