The Justice Department has reached a comprehensive settlement agreement with the city of Miami and the Miami Police Department (MPD) resolving the Justice Departments investigation of officer-involved shootings by MPD officers, announced Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta, head of the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division and U.S. Attorney Wifredo A. Ferrer of the Southern District of Florida.The settlement, which was approved by Miamis city commission today and will go into effect when the agreement is signed by all parties, resolves claims stemming from the Justice Departments investigation into officer-involved shootings by MPD officers, which was conducted under the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994. The investigations findings, issued in July 2013, identified a pattern or practice of excessive use of force through officer-involved shootings in violation of the Fourth Amendment of the Constitution.The citys compliance with the settlement will be monitored by an independent reviewer, former Tampa, Florida, Police Chief Jane Castor. Under the settlement agreement, the city will implement comprehensive reforms to ensure constitutional policing and support public trust.The settlement agreement is designed to minimize officer-involved shootings and to more effectively and quickly investigate officer-involved shootings that do occur, through measures that include:This settlement represents a renewed commitment by the city of Miami and Chief Rodolfo Llanes to provide constitutional policing for Miami residents and to protect public safety through sustainable reform, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Gupta. The agreement will help to strengthen the relationship between the MPD and the communities they serve by improving accountability for officers who fire their weapons unlawfully, and provides for community participation in the enforcement of this agreement.Today's agreement is the result of a joint effort between the Department of Justice and the City of Miami to ensure that the Miami Police Department continues its efforts to make our community safe while protecting the sacred Constitutional rights of all of our citizens, said U.S. Attorney Ferrer. Through oversight and communication, the agreement seeks to make permanent the positive changes that former Chief Orosa and Chief Llanes have made, and we applaud the City Commissions vote.The settlement agreement builds upon important reforms implemented by the city since the Justice Department issued its findings, including:The investigation was conducted by attorneys and staff from the Civil Rights Divisions Special Litigation Section and the Civil Division of the U. S. Attorneys Office of the Southern District of Florida.