None   A principal goal of the workshop will be to advance the economic understanding of the potential harms and benefits of conditional pricing practices and to reexamine their treatment under the antitrust laws.      Conditional pricing practices, similar to other distribution strategies, may have anticompetitive effects and efficiency benefits. For example, if a loyalty or share discount induces buyers to make most or all of their purchases from the seller, under some circumstances it might deprive the sellers rivals of sufficient access to efficient distribution or production and facilitate the sellers exercise of market power.  Similarly, bundled pricing can deny rivals that do not produce all of the products in the bundle efficiencies of scale or scope.  Supporters of such arrangements contend, however, that as long as these practices involve prices that are above some measure of cost, they are likely to reflect beneficial price competition, and that restraining their use will inhibit robust competition.      The legal treatment of conditional pricing practices has traditionally fallen into two categories.  The first focuses on pricing and applies various forms of a price-cost test. The second examines whether a particular pricing practice reduces competition by raising the costs of rival firms or otherwise impeding their ability or incentives to expand or achieve efficiencies. These effects on competition could be comparable to those resulting from other distribution practices, such as exclusive dealing or tying.    None  None  None None None   The workshop will take place at the FTCs new satellite conference center, Constitution Center, 400 Seventh Street, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20024. A workshop agenda and list of speakers will be published in advance of the workshop.      Press contacts:   Department of Justice  Office of Public Affairs  Gina Talamona  202-514-2007   Federal Trade Commission  Office of Public Affairs  Mitch Katz  202-326-2161    Staff contacts:   Department of Justice  Antitrust Division, Office of Legal Policy  Robert Potter  202-514-2512   Federal Trade Commission  Douglas Hilleboe, Office of Planning Policy  202-326-2155   Andrea Zach, Bureau of Competition  202-326-2184