An associate of the Vice Lords street gang was sentenced to 48 months in prison today for witness tampering by obtaining and disclosing the private health information of Vice Lords shooting victims and victims family members to a member of the gang.Acting Assistant Attorney General David Bitkower of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Barbara L. McQuade of the Eastern District of Michigan, Special Agent in Charge Robin Shoemaker of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) Detroit Field Division, Special Agent in Charge David P. Gelios of the FBIs Detroit Division and Chief James Craig of the Detroit Police Department made the announcement.Jamerio Clark, aka Merio, 28, of Detroit, was sentenced by U.S. District Judge David M. Lawson of the Eastern District of Michigan.According to admissions made by codefendants who have pleaded guilty in this case, the Vice Lords is a national gang engaged in a variety of crimes, and Vice Lords leaders are located in both Chicago and Detroit. The gang is broken down into various sets, decks, or branches, including the Detroit-based Traveling Vice Lords (TVL). The Vice Lords have often targeted members who sought to leave the gang for physical beatings or murder. Jamerio Clark admitted that from May 8, 2015, through at least January 2016, he was employed at a medical facility where he had access to a private database that contained individually identifiable health information for anyone who had been treated at a Detroit Medical Center facility. At the request of his brother and fellow gang member, Antonio Clark, and while employed at the medical facility, Jamerio Clark accessed this database on at least 15 occasions to search for three TVL shooting victims, he admitted. Jamerio Clark then provided information, including dates of birth, phone numbers, addresses, and information pertaining to relatives of these victims to Antonio Clark. Jamerio Clark admitted that he knew his brother wanted this information to locate these relatives and prevent them from cooperating in the investigation and prosecution of the TVL shooting.NoneNoneThe arrests and convictions in this case are, in part, the result of the Detroit One Initiative, a collaborative effort between law enforcement and the community to reduce homicide and other violent crime in Detroit. Through the lead efforts of the Comprehensive Violence Reduction Partnership Task Force, which consists of representatives of the ATF, Detroit Police Department, Michigan State Police, Michigan Department of Corrections and FBI, law enforcement authorities linked various acts of violence in Detroit to the Vice Lords street gang, and identified the leaders and key members of the gang, who now have been held accountable.The charges and allegations contained in the indictment are merely accusations. The defendants are presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty. The ATF, FBI and Detroit Police Department are investigating the case. Trial Attorney Joseph Wheatley of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Christopher Graveline and Mark Bilkovic of the Eastern District of Michigan are prosecuting the case.