NoneNoneNone Fraud is unacceptable, said U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Florida Wifredo A. Ferrer. Fraud by threat and intimidation is particularly troublesome because it targets the perceived, but oftentimes real, vulnerabilities of those preyed upon. In this case, the defendants targeted Spanish-speaking consumers and falsely threatened them with arrest, deportation or fines when the consumers refused delivery for products they had not ordered. Such tactics are intolerable. My office is committed and stands united with the departments Civil Division, Consumer Protection Branch to stem such fraud. As part of their guilty pleas, Carrasco and Gioja admitted they routinely changed the names of the companies under which they did business to evade consumer complaints, regulators and law enforcement. A variety of state agencies contacted the businesses regarding their illicit practices. Those working with Carrasco and Gioja referred to these companies tainted by complaints as burnt. Rather than changing the burnt companies practices, Carrasco and Gioja incorporated new companies and started the same illegal practices again. Also in pleading guilty, Carrasco and Gioja admitted their telemarketers falsely represented to consumers that they were affiliated with Spanish-language television networks. This fraud first came to light when the Spanish language network Univision informed the USPIS they believed a company was involved in a fraud scheme in which it misrepresented its affiliation with the network. Subsequently, USPIS investigated the case, submitted the affidavit in support of the criminal complaint and arrested the defendants. Sadly, these types of crimes create a distrust in people and leave victims feeling ashamed for falling for a scam, said Inspector In Charge Ronald Verrochio for the U.S. Postal Inspection Service, Miami Division. The U.S. Postal Inspection Service remains committed to pursuing crimes that are furthered via the U.S. mail and building trust with consumers. Postal Inspectors will investigate and bring the criminals to justice. Carrasco and Gioja were originally charged by criminal complaint and arrested on June 26, 2013. Both defendants were later indicted on July 25, 2013, and pleaded guilty on September 24, 2013. Carrasco and Gioja, and a third individual, Romino Tasso, also were named in a civil suit filed by the Justice Department. In the civil case, the Justice Department requested and obtained from the court a preliminary injunction barring further lies to consumers and freezing the assets of Carrasco, Gioja, Tasso and companies under their control. Assistant Attorney General Delery commended the Postal Inspection Service for their investigative efforts and thanked the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of Florida for their contributions to the civil case. The criminal case was prosecuted by Assistant Director Richard Goldberg with the Department of Justices Civil Division, Consumer Protection Branch and Assistant U.S. Attorney Timothy Abraham of the Southern District of Florida.