Mohamad SaeedKodaimati(Saeed),24,of San Diego, wasarrested andcharged ina federal criminal complaint with two counts of making false statements involving international terrorism matters, announced Assistant Attorney General for National Security John P. Carlin, U.S. Attorney Laura E. Duffyofthe Southern District of CaliforniaandSpecial Agent in ChargeEric S. Birnbaumof theFBIsSan Diego Field Office.Acriminal complaint was filedtoday in the U.S. District Court of theSouthern District of California, charging Saeed with two counts ofprovidingfalse statements involving international terrorism. In summary, the criminal complaint alleges thatduring interviews with agents from the FBI and the Department of States Diplomatic Security Service (DSS), that occurred in March 2015 atthe U.S. Embassyin Ankara, Turkey, Saeed made material false statements about his recent activities and associations in Syria.According to the complaint, Saeed falsely claimed that he had never been involved in any fighting, that he had never fired his weapon at anyone, that he did not know anyone who was a member of ISIL, that he had never told anyone else that he was involved with Al-Nusrah and that he had never worked or volunteered at a Sharia court. Evidence gathered during the investigation contradicts these and other statements Saeed made to the interviewing agents.According to the criminal complaint, Saeed was born in Syria and became a naturalized U.S. citizen in September 2008. In December 2012, Saeed travelled from San Diego to Istanbul and was inSyria and Turkey until his return to the United States.In March 2015, Saeed returned to the United States and was interviewed by U.S. Customs and Border Protection agents and the FBI. Saeed was arrested by FBI agents and members of the San Diego Joint Terrorism Task Force (JTTF) in Rancho Bernardo, California, without incident on April 22, 2015. Saeed is scheduled to make his initial appearance before U.S. Magistrate Judge Karen Crawford of the Southern District of California at 2 p.m. PDT on Thursday, April 23, 2015. The charges in this matter are the result of an investigation conducted by the FBIs San Diego JTTF, with assistance provided by the FBIs JTTF in Charlotte, North Carolina.An arrest itself is not evidence that the defendant committed crimes charged. The defendant is presumed innocent until the government meets its burden in court of proving guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.None