  Earlier today, charges were unsealed against Romanian fugitive Nicolae Popescu, the leader of an international organized crime syndicate that ran a multimillion dollar cyber fraud scheme, and six other fugitives charged with participating in the same scheme. Interpol has issued red notices to foreign law enforcement partners seeking assistance in the apprehension of these fugitives, and the FBI has also released Wanted posters to facilitate their arrests.  Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Loretta E. Lynch of the Eastern District of New York, and Assistant Director in Charge George Venizelos of the FBIs New York Office made the announcement.  Today, we have unsealed charges  and issued wanted posters and Interpol red notices  for a band of dangerous cybercriminals who are alleged to have stolen millions of dollars from unsuspecting consumers around the globe, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Raman. As described in the indictment, the leader of this band of thieves openly proclaimed that he is beyond the reach of the U.S. criminal justice system. But with the help of our international partners, we will track down and capture every alleged member of this criminal syndicate, no matter where they are hiding.  Using forged documents and phony websites, for years Popescu and his criminal syndicate reached across the ocean to pick the pockets of hard working Americans looking to purchase cars, said United States Attorney Lynch. They thought their distance would insulate them from law enforcement scrutiny. They were wrong. By now, Popescu and his band of fugitives have seen their co-conspirators brought here to account for their crimes. Todays actions place them squarely in the sights of our partners in international law enforcement. We will not stop in our efforts to find these fugitives and bring them to justice for the crimes they have allegedly committed against our citizens.   As alleged, the defendants infiltrated the cyber marketplace with advertisements for high-value items that didnt exist, said FBI Assistant Director in Charge Venizelos. They siphoned funds from victims to fuel their greedy desires and created false identities, fake websites and counterfeit certificates of title in order to make the scheme more convincing. Popescu and his co-conspirators were masters of illusion, but they cant escape their ultimate reality. With the help of our law enforcement partners at home and abroad, we will bring them to justice.  Popescu, Romanian nationals Daniel Alexe, Dmitru Daniel Bosogioiu, Ovidiu Cristea, and Dragomir Razvan, and a defendant who goes by the names George Skyper and Tudor Barbu Lautaru, as well as Albanian national Fabjan Meme, were originally charged in a criminal complaint with six other defendants for their participation in a cyber-fraud conspiracy that targeted primarily American consumers on such U.S.-based websites as Cars.com and AutoTrader.com. Their six co-defendants were arrested in a coordinated international takedown on Dec. 5, 2012, but Popescu, Alexe, Bosogioiu, Cristea, Razvan, and Meme have remained at large.None  According to the charging documents, Popescu and his close associate Bosogioiu demonstrated that they were aware of the risks of prosecution in the United States. In a recorded conversation on Oct. 23, 2011, Bosogioiu asked about the difference between federal and state law in the United States and vowed to avoid the FBI. Popescu, meanwhile, predicted on July 28, 2011, that criminals will not be extradited from Romania to U.S.A.[I]t will never happen.  The charges in the complaint and the indictment are merely allegations, and the defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.  The governments case is being prosecuted by Senior Litigation Counsel Carol Sipperly of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Cristina Posa, Nadia Shihata, and Claire Kedeshian of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of New York.  The offices of the FBI Legal Attachs in Romania, the Czech Republic, the United Kingdom, Canada and Hungary were instrumental in coordinating efforts with the United States international partners, and the U.S. government thanks its partners in Romania, the Czech Republic, Hungary, the United Kingdom, Canada and Germany for their close cooperation throughout this investigation. The Criminal Divisions Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section, Office of International Affairs, and Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section provided assistance with this investigation, as did the International Organized Crime Intelligence and Operations Center; the Internet Crime Complaint Center; the Costa Mesa, Calif., Police Department; the Orange County, Calif., District Attorneys Office; and the New York City Police Department.