Freedom Health Inc., a Tampa, Florida-based provider of managed care services, and its related corporate entities (collectively Freedom Health), agreed to pay $31,695,593 to resolve allegations that they violated the False Claims Act by engaging in illegal schemes to maximize their payment from the government in connection with their Medicare Advantage plans, the Justice Department announced today. In addition, the former Chief Operating Officer (COO) of Freedom Health Siddhartha Pagidipati, has agreed to pay $750,000 to resolve his alleged role in one of these schemes.  None The government alleged that Freedom Health submitted or caused others to submit unsupported diagnosis codes to CMS, which resulted in inflated reimbursements from 2008 to 2013 in connection with two of their Medicare Advantage plans operating in Florida. It also alleged that Freedom Health made material misrepresentations to CMS regarding the scope and content of its network of providers (physicians, specialists and hospitals) in its application to CMS in 2008 to expand in 2009 into new counties in Florida and in other states. The governments settlement with Mr. Pagidipati resolves his alleged role in this latter scheme. Medicare Advantage plans play an increasingly important role in our nations health care market, said Acting U.S. Attorney Stephen Muldrow. This settlement underscores our Offices commitment to civil health care fraud enforcement. None The allegations resolved by these settlements were brought in a lawsuit under the qui tam, or whistleblower, provisions of the Federal False Claims Act and the Florida False Claims Act. These statutes permit private parties to sue on behalf of the government for false claims and to receive a share of any recovery. The whistleblower in this action is Darren D. Sewell, who was a former employee of Freedom Health. The whistleblowers share in this case has not yet been determined.  The corporate entities related to Freedom and which were part of todays settlements are: Optimum HealthCare Inc., Americas 1st Choice Holdings of Florida LLC, Liberty Acquisition Group LLC, Health Management Services of USA LLC, Global TPA LLC, Americas 1st Choice Holdings of North Carolina LLC, Americas 1st Choice Holdings of South Carolina LLC, Americas 1st Choice Insurance Company of North Carolina Inc. and Americas 1st Choice Health Plans Inc. Today's settlements were the result of a coordinated effort by the Civil Divisions Commercial Litigation Branch, The U.S. Attorneys Office for the Middle District of Florida, HHS-OIG and the Florida Office of the Attorney General.  None