A federal jury in Houston today convicted the president of Riverside General Hospital (Riverside), his son, and two others for their participation in a $158 million Medicare fraud scheme involving false claims for mental health treatment. Ten defendants have now been convicted in connection with the Riverside fraud scheme.Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Kenneth Magidson of the Southern District of Texas, Special Agent in Charge Perrye K. Turner of the FBIs Houston Field Office, Special Agent in Charge Lucy R. Cruz of the Internal Revenue Service  Criminal Investigations (IRS-CI) Houston Field Office and the Texas Attorney Generals Medicaid Fraud Control Unit (MFCU) made the announcement. U.S. District Judge Lee H. Rosenthal of the Southern District of Texas presided over the trial.The former president of Riverside hospital, his son, and their co-conspirators systematically defrauded Medicare, treating mentally ill and disabled Americans like chits to be traded and cashed out to pad their own pockets, said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. For over six years, the Gibsons and their co-conspirators stuck taxpayers with millions in hospital bills, purportedly for intensive psychiatric treatment. But the treatment was a sham  some patients just watched television all day, others had dementia and couldnt understand the therapy they supposedly received, and other patients never even went to the hospital at all. Todays verdict sends another powerful message that the department will hold accountable anyone who seeks personal profits at the expense of Americas most vulnerable citizens.Earnest Gibson III, 70, the former president of Riverside, Earnest Gibson IV, 37, the operator of one of Riversides satellite locations, and Regina Askew, 49, a group home owner, were each convicted of conspiracy to commit health care fraud and conspiracy to pay kickbacks, as well as related counts of paying and receiving illegal kickbacks. Robert Crane, 58, a patient recruiter, was convicted of conspiracy to pay and receive kickbacks. Gibson III and Gibson IV were also convicted of conspiracy to commit money laundering. Gibson III was acquitted of two substantive counts of paying and receiving illegal kickbacks.According to evidence presented at trial, Gibson III, Gibson IV, and Askew operated a scheme to defraud Medicare beginning in 2005 and continuing until June 2012.The defendants caused the submission of false and fraudulent claims for partial hospitalization program (PHP) services to Medicare through the hospital. A PHP is a form of intensive outpatient treatment for severe mental illness.Specifically, evidence at trial demonstrated that the Medicare beneficiaries for whom Riverside and its satellite locations billed Medicare for PHP services did not qualify for or need PHP services. Moreover, the Medicare beneficiaries rarely saw a psychiatrist and did not receive intensive psychiatric treatment. In fact, some of the Medicare beneficiaries were suffering from Alzheimers and could not actively participate in any treatment even if they actually qualified to receive PHP services. Nevertheless, Gibson III, Gibson IV and Askew submitted claims for reimbursement to Medicare claiming that PHP services were provided to the Medicare beneficiaries.Evidence presented at trial also showed that Earnest Gibson III paid kickbacks to patient recruiters and to owners and operators of group care homes, including Askew, in exchange for those individuals delivering ineligible Medicare beneficiaries to the hospitals PHPs. Gibson IV also paid patient recruiters, including Crane and others, in exchange for those individuals delivering ineligible Medicare beneficiaries to the specific PHP operated by Gibson IV.Approximately $158 million in claims to Medicare were submitted for PHP services purportedly provided by the hospital to the recruited beneficiaries, when in fact, the PHP services were medically unnecessary or never provided. The proceeds from the health care fraud were used to promote the fraud scheme by paying kickbacks to patient recruiters and group home owners in exchange for their sending Medicare beneficiaries to the hospitals PHPs.Gibson III, Gibson IV, Askew and Crane are scheduled to be sentenced on Feb. 17, 2015.Others involved in the fraudulent scheme have already pleaded guilty and are awaiting sentencing. Mohammad Khan, an assistant administrator at the hospital, who managed many of the hospitals PHPs, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit health care fraud, conspiracy to defraud the United States and to pay illegal kickbacks, and five counts of paying illegal kickbacks. William Bullock, an operator of a Riverside satellite location, as well as Leslie Clark, Robert Ferguson, Waddie McDuffie, and Sharonda Holmes, who were all involved in paying or receiving kickbacks, have also pleaded guilty to their roles in the scheme.The case was investigated by the FBI, IRS-CI, and Texas MFCU, with assistance from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector Generals (HHS-OIG) Dallas Regional Office, the Railroad Retirement Board, Office of Inspector Generals Chicago Field Office and the Office of Personnel Managements Office of Inspector General, and was brought as part of the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, under the supervision of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of Texas. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant Chiefs Laura M.K. Cordova and Jennifer L. Saulino and Trial Attorney Ashlee C. McFarlane of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section.Since its inception in March 2007, the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, now operating in nine cities across the country, has charged nearly 2,000 defendants who have collectively billed the Medicare program for more than $6 billion. In addition, the HHS Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, working in conjunction with the HHS-OIG, are taking steps to increase accountability and decrease the presence of fraudulent providers.None