  WASHINGTON - Janet Jaensch, a federal employee, pleaded guilty in U.S. District Court in Alexandria, Va., to one count of failure to file a 2008 federal income tax return, the Justice Department and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) announced today.   According to court documents, between 2001 and 2011, Jaensch was employed by the federal government and was married to Richard Jaensch. Between 2001 and 2008, Janet Jaensch did not timely file U.S. Individual Income Tax Returns, Form 1040, with the IRS, despite the fact that she was required to do so. Specifically, in 2008, Jaensch admitted that she received $152,725 in gross income, yet she did not timely file a federal income tax return nor did she timely pay any income tax to the IRS. She further admitted that between 2002 and 2009, she failed to timely pay approximately $226,685 in taxes to the IRS.      In addition, according to the statement of facts, Jaensch admitted that beginning in 2002, and continuing each year through approximately 2009, at the direction of her husband, she presented a letter to her payroll department directing her employer to stop withholding federal income taxes from her salary. Jaensch further admitted that between 2002 and 2009, at her husbands direction, she willfully committed the following acts: sending a document to the IRS claiming that she was not a person required to file federal income tax returns; recording in Fairfax County, Va., a Declaration of Independence by Public Notice claiming that she was not a party to the Constitution of the united States of America; sending correspondence to the IRS claiming they could not instruct her employer to withhold taxes from her paycheck; and sending certified letters to the Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) and IRS advising that she is not a taxpayer.   The defendant faces a maximum potential sentence of one year in prison.   Sentencing has been scheduled for Aug. 16, 2011. None   This case was investigated by IRS-Criminal Investigation and is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Gene Rossi and the Department of Justices Tax Division Trial Attorney Caryn Finley. None