A nine count federal indictment was unsealed today in the District of Puerto Rico charging 105 defendants with racketeering, drug trafficking, drive-by shooting murders and related firearm offenses, announced U.S. Attorney Rosa Emilia Rodrguez-Vlez for the District of Puerto Rico. The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) and the Puerto Rico Police Department (PRPD)-San Juan and Carolina Strike Forces were in charge of the investigation, with the assistance of PRPDs Major Crimes Unit.The indictment alleges that the defendants are part of a criminal organization known as La Rompe ONU. Through its criminal activities La Rompe ONU enriched its members and maintained and increased the power of the organization. Members of La Rompe ONU would sell crack, cocaine, heroin and marihuana in public housing projects, including: Jardines del Paraso, Villa Andaluca, Alturas de Cupey, Jardines de Cupey, Brisas de Cupey, Los Claveles, Nuestra Seora de Covodonga, Los Lirios, Jardines de Monte Hatillo, Jardines de Campo Rico, Jardines de Berwind, San Martn, Monte Park and Villa Lomas Verdes Public Housing Projects; as well as El Polvorn Ward, Mango Sector and other surrounding areas within the municipalities of San Juan, Trujillo Alto and Carolina, PR. Moreover, members of the organization used violence and intimidation, including murder, to increase the power, territory and profits of La Rompe ONU.Members of La Rompe ONU had different roles in order to further the goals of the enterprise. As alleged in the indictment, 35 leaders/drug point owners/drug point administrators, who directed and supervised the organizations criminal activities; 25 enforcers; eight suppliers; 11 runners; 25 sellers; and one drug processor.According to the indictment, as part of the racketeering conspiracy, the organization committed 12 murders, including three massacres. Enforcers of La Rompe ONU carried out the murders of the following individuals:On Feb. 8, 2011, enforcers shot and killed David Gonzlez-Reyes, aka Chispa.On May 10, 2011, enforcers shot and killed Ricco Luis Dvila-Daz.On June 25, 2011, during a drive-by shooting, enforcers shot and killed Edwin Daz-Cruz, Hervin Valcarcel-Martnez aka Prieto, Javier Catala-Bermdez, and Orlando Melndez-Villegas. This massacre is known as the Tortuguero Massacre.On July 20, 2011, during a drive-by shooting, enforcers shot and killed Santos Daz-Camacho aka Joel Bazooka, Juan Rosario-Mercado aka Toito, and Kevin Soto-Romn aka El Gordo. This massacre is known as the Paseos Massacre.On Aug. 28, 2012, during a drive-by shooting, enforcers shot and killed Luis Ojeda-Andino aka Pollo, Luis Velzquez-Aquino aka Urraca and Jos Ayala-Garca. This massacre is known as the Jardines de Cupey Massacre.According to the indictment, 69 of the 105 defendants are charged with using and carrying firearms during and in relation to a drug trafficking crime. Thirty-two firearms were seized from the defendants during the investigation, and they face a forfeiture allegation of $82 million.The historic indictment unsealed today shows our continued efforts to dismantle dangerous criminal organizations operating in our communities, said U.S. Attorney Rodrguez-Vlez. We remain undeterred in our commitment to ensure safety and seek justice for victims of violent crimes in Puerto Rico. La Rompe ONU will no longer terrorize law abiding citizens in Puerto Rico. We will continue to use all the tools at our disposal to build solid cases against these individuals, and bring them to justice.Todays arrests demonstrate law enforcements commitment to dismantle violent drug trafficking gangs that are affecting the quality of life of our law abiding citizens in the community, said Special Agent in Charge Hugo Barrera for ATFs Miami Field Division. The key to this fight is bringing the resources of all levels of government to empower law enforcement to target organized groups of violent criminals with enhanced punishment and criminal penalties through the utilization of federal statutes, such as, the Violent Crime in Aiding and Abetting Racketeering statute. This sends a clear message that our community will not tolerate the heinous activity perpetrated by gangs like La Rompe ONU and evidences our commitment to work together to dismantle violent street gangs.The defendants are: Josu Vzquez-Carrasquillo aka Mayito/Mayo/El Father, Pedro Vigio-Aponte aka Pedrito/Pedrito He-Man/Pello/Pedrito Trauma, Frankie Rosa-Caldern aka Anky/El Negro/Frank, Luis F. Alicea-Coln aka Trenza/Enano/Luis Trenza, Miguel Vzquez-Martnez aka Miguelo/Radio/Miclo/Bj, Rubn Cotto-Andino aka Rubn El Negro, Ernesto Morales-Castro aka Nestor/Los Gorditos, Christian Morales-Castro aka Bimbo/Los Gorditos, Reyfrank Quiones-Carrin aka Pelotero, Kelvin D. Morales-Cintrn, Ismael Mndez-Arroyo aka Bolillo, Michael Muiz-Snchez, Jonathan Prez-Rodrguez aka Perra/Perreke, Jos L. Ortiz-Aguirre aka Cheo/Cheo Cedeo, Reinaldo Rodrguez-Martnez aka Pitbull, William Ortiz-Aguirre aka Playa/Play, Kidanny Figueroa-Osorio aka Sony/Sonata, Jos L. Soto-Rivera aka Luisito/Scary, Jos E. Mojica-Robles aka Papito Mojica, Victor M. Rodrguez-Torres aka Cuca/Cucaracha/Papotin, Rafael Andino-Ojeda aka Rafa/Rafa Colgate/Boca Chula, Myles J. Romn-Adorno, Guillermo Snchez-Mora aka Guillo, Emanuel Zabala-Prez aka Punky/Dalmata, Alexander Rivera-Carrin aka Lechon, David E. Rodrguez-Castro, Rafael Hiraldo-Alejandro aka Bolillo, Alexis Cartagena-Gerena aka Pollo, ngel L. Soto-Ramos aka Huesito, Oscar A. Calvio-Acevedo aka Alex, Jess De-Jess-Coln aka Romulo, Jos L. Mndez-De-Jess aka Sonso/Nariz, William Zambrana-Sierra aka W/Willito, Edgar Gonzlez-Rivera aka Eggy, Arnaldo Alicea-Coln aka Naldito, Xavier Castro-Vega aka Raton, Carlos M. Guerrero-Castro aka Carlitos El Negro/Marcel, Analdi Tanco-Moreno aka Kimbito, Orlando J. Santana aka Fino, Luis F. Rodrguez-Mrquez aka Cheykin, Jess E. Montalvan-Daz aka Luis Garcia-Diaz/Willy Wonka, Amaury Mndez-Rosado aka Boty, Luis Yanyore-Pizarro aka Kimbo/Bauncer/Jose Boria-Millan, Fnu Lnu aka Eziel, Luis Martnez-Nieves aka Raya/Trenza, Michael Rivera-Rodrguez, Alvin A. Cabezas-Cintrn aka Ardilla, Jaime M. Semiday-Prez, Kenny O. Pacheco aka Keny/Bolin, Roberto Fuentes-Pacheco aka Junito Parcha, Roger Falu-Diaz aka Gua, Flix A. Malave-Torres aka Cholon, Edgardo Luna-Lpez aka Piri/Enano, Jessy J. Melndez-Hernndez aka Koby/El Negro/Lely, Denzel Rodrguez-Caraballo, Abimael Cruz-Rodrguez aka Lindo/Feo/Metra, ngel L. Cotto-Negrn aka Quija/Kija, Jos E. Rivera-Maldonado aka Camon, Fnu Lnu aka Gaby, Jos D. Resto-Figueroa aka Tego, Orlando Padilla-Ayala aka Oreo/Willito/Angel M. Santiago-Ayala, Kernis Rodrguez-Rivera aka Sosa, Walter D. Muller-Coln aka Vampy/Bolo, Wilfredo Ruiz aka Freddy, Carlos E. Brioso-Collantes aka El Barber/Wiso El Barber, Carlos Velzquez-Fontanez aka Pirin, Jonathan Figueroa-Catinchi aka Katinchi, Iram I. Santander-Zulueta aka Cubano, Charlie J. Fournier-Collazo aka Chiry, Edgardo R. Ruano-Chvere aka Masacre/Masa, Francisco J. Gonzlez-Camacho aka Lento, Nestor R. Concepcin-Rivera aka Nesti/Kilate, Ivette Vzquez-Droz aka Ive/Precious Moments, Billy Villanueva-Carrasquillo aka Meca/Billy Meca, Jayfrank Quiones-Carrin, Flix Rodrguez-Rodrguez aka Correa/Baloncelista/El Indio, Daniel O. Martnez-Vlez aka Berto, Luis F. Daz-Tineo aka Pipen/Pipe, Josu O. Figueroa-Rodrguez, Ramn Vicenty-Rivera aka Poke, Luis E. Guadalupe-Camacho aka Yaya/Yayi/Ardilla, Julio N. Matos-Snchez aka Julio Maraa, Reynaldo Gonzlez-Zayas aka Cuto, Bryan Martnez aka Fat Boy, Damian Fernndez-Jorge, Jos A. Fournier-Collazo aka Semilla, Kevin Castro-Vega, Juan Guadalupe-Delgado aka Bocao, David Garca-Franco aka David Nota, Giovani Justiniano-Daz aka Zegueta, Christian Vzquez-Hernndez aka Chapa, James Steele-Torres aka Negro Steele, Nilda Santiago-Espinosa aka Katy, Alex Santiago-Crespo aka Papo Swing/Ale, Francisco Vargas-Snchez aka Maraa, Carlos Miranda aka Eo, Ramn Andino-Peguero aka Mono, Victor Alfonso-Jorge aka Nano, Hctor J. Cruz-Vargas, aka Punky, Yamil Arrizmendi-Santana, aka El Mono, Robert D. Prez-Nez aka Minino, Anthony Espada-Coln aka Oreo/Apu, Daniel De-Jess-Daz aka Paleta, Luis E. Espada-Coln aka Zona and Astrid J. Martnez-Valentin aka La Jefa.Assistant U.S. Attorneys Alberto Lpez-Rocafort and Victor O. Acevedo-Hernndez are in charge of the prosecution of the case. They were assisted by attorney from the U.S. Department of Justices Capital Crimes Section and Organized Crime and Gang Section. ATF and PRPD were in charge of the investigation. Approximately 700 agents from federal and commonwealth authorities participated in the arrests.If convicted, the defendants face up to life in prison. Eighteen of the defendants who participated in the murders included in the indictment are eligible for the death penalty. Indictments contain only charges and are not evidence of guilt. Defendants are presumed to be innocent until and unless proven guilty.