Acting Assistant Attorney General Jocelyn Samuels of the Civil Rights Division and U.S. Attorney Carmen M. Ortiz of the District of Massachusetts announced today that they have entered into a consent decree with HRB Digital LLC and HRB Tax Group Inc., subsidiaries of H&R Block Inc., to remedy alleged violations of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). The decree resolves the departments allegations that individuals with disabilities are denied full and equal enjoyment of largely tax-preparation focused goods and services that are provided through H&R Blocks website and mobile applications. The decree has been filed with the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts for the courts approval. None None None This landmark decree ensures that individuals with disabilities will have an equal opportunity to independently and conveniently obtain information and complete taxes as others do, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Samuels. H&R Block is to be commended for working with the NFB and the Justice Department in resolving to take such steps. For those with disabilities, an inaccessible website puts them at a great disadvantage and further perpetuates a feeling of dependence and reliance on others, said U.S. Attorney Ortiz. With thoughtful and proper web design, businesses and organizations can have a great impact on the daily lives of people with disabilities who, like everyone else, seek to enjoy the benefits of technology. Under the terms of the five year decree, H&R Blocks website, tax filing utility and mobile apps will conform to the Level AA Success Criteria of the WCAG 2.0. According to the decree, the H&R Block website will be accessible for the start of the next tax filing term on Jan. 1, 2015, with additional accessibility deadlines over the following years of the decree. Additionally, HRB Digital and HRB Tax Group have agreed to: appoint a skilled web accessibility coordinator who will report to H&R Blocks enterprise Chief Information Officer; adopt a web accessibility policy; initiate training on accessible design for its web content personnel; evaluate employee and contractor performance based on successful web access programming; conduct regular automated and user group testing; and hire an approved outside consultant to prepare annual independent evaluations of Blocks online accessibility. H&R Block will also pay $45,000 to the two individual plaintiffs, and a $55,000 civil penalty. None