A Bremerton, Washington, man has been sentenced to 30 months in prison following his conviction of a federal hate crime, announced Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta, head of the Department of Justices Civil Rights Division, and U.S. Attorney Annette L. Hayes of the Western District of Washington.Troy Deacon Burns, 38, was charged with violating the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act. Burns pleaded guilty on Aug. 5, 2015, and admitted that just after midnight on Jan. 25, 2015, he attacked three gay men who were walking in Seattles Capitol Hill neighborhood.Burns admitted in his plea agreement that he came up behind the three men and shouted homophobic slurs. Burns then raised a knife over his head in a stabbing position. Fearing for their safety, the men started running. As Burns caught up to one of the men, he again used a slur and attempted to stab the man. One of the other men was able to pull his friend away from Burns. The third man located Seattle police officers who took Burns into custody. While detained in the police car, Burns continued to yell homophobic slurs. During the plea hearing, Burns said he was under the influence of drugs and alcohol at the time of the assault and claimed that he does not remember his actions.The Department of Justice will continue to vigilantly protect the rights of victims who are targeted simply because of their sexual orientation, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Gupta. Six years have passed since the enactment of the Hate Crimes Prevention Act, and it continues to serve as an important tool for federal law enforcement.No one should have to fear attack because of their sexual orientation when they walk down the streets of the cities and towns in Western Washington, said U.S. Attorney Hayes. The U.S. Attorneys Office is committed to working closely with the Civil Rights Division to ensure cases like this are prosecuted and that the common decency that is at the heart of the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act is respected by all.The case was investigated by the Seattle Police Department and the FBI. The case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Bruce Miyake of the Western District of Washington and Trial Attorney Saeed Mody of the Civil Rights Division. The King County, Washington, Prosecuting Attorneys Office provided significant assistance with the case as well.