The Department of Justice today announced Jamie Larson, 49, pleaded guilty in U.S. District Court in Seattle to a federal hate crime relating to a racially-motivated assault of a 50-year-old Sikh man who works as a taxi cab driver.Jamie Larson pleaded guilty to one count of violating the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act that was enacted in October 2009. The indictment alleges that on Oct. 17, 2012, Larson assaulted the victim, who is from India, based upon the victims actual and perceived race, color and national origin, which included Middle Eastern and Arab descent. The defendant was arrested at the scene of the attack after a witness called 911.According to the documents filed in court, the victim was called to drive Larson to an address in Federal Way, Wash. When the taxi arrived at the destination, the driver got out of the taxi and Larson got out and attacked the driver, grabbing his beard, pulling him to the ground, punching and stomping on his head and body. Larson uttered racial slurs and insults about the vicitms perceived ancestry during the attack. The victim suffered damage to his back, shoulder and kidney. He was hospitalized for more than a week and has undergone lengthy physical therapy.This case is a testament to the Justice Departments dedication to vigorously investigate and prosecute all racially-motivated attacks, said Roy L. Austin Jr., Deputy Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division. It is unacceptable that violent acts of hate committed because of someones race and ethnicity continue to occur, and the department will continue to use every available tool to identify and prosecute hate crimes whenever and wherever they occur.Acts of hate, such as this one, hurt not only the victim, but tear at our social fabric. They cannot be tolerated in our community, said U.S. Attorney for the Western Distrcict of Washington Jenny A. Durkan. The Shepard-Byrd Act is an important tool for holding defendants accountable.NoneNoneNone