None  Protecting the integrity of the Medicare program, which over 47 million individuals rely on for their medical care, is one of the departments highest priorities. Health care providers are put on notice that they must bill only for medically appropriate care said Stuart F. Delery, Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Civil Division.  The complaints, which were filed separately by the two relators, were consolidated into the case captioned United States ex rel. R. Jeffrey Wertz and Rebecca S. Tarlton v. Radiotherapy Clinics of Georgia, LLC, et al., Civil Action No. 1:08-CV-2244, pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia. The relators, R. Jeffrey Wertz and Rebecca S. Tarlton, M.D., will receive $646,000 as their share of the proceeds.  Sally Quillian Yates, U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia, said, This settlement demonstrates our office's continued commitment to stop Medicare fraud. Unfortunately, otherwise legitimate businesses continue to take advantage of federal healthcare programs for their private profit. We will not ignore these violations.  The OIG would like to remind providers that if they know a claim to be false, it is their responsibility to bill the claim properly, said Derrick L. Jackson, Special Agent in Charge of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General (HHS-OIG) for the Atlanta region. The OIG will continue to hold companies like RCOG responsible for improper claims.  Brian D. Lamkin, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated: The FBI continues to dedicate many investigative resources to the protection of the federally funded Medicare program from individuals who would attempt to divert these much needed funds through fraud. The public is reminded that anyone with information regarding healthcare fraud, to include Medicare fraud, related activity should contact their nearest FBI field office.None  The claims settled by todays agreement are allegations only; there has been no determination of liability.