  A Michigan man was sentenced today in Detroit to 81 months in prison for his role in a wide-ranging conspiracy to defraud the Medicare program, announced the Departments of Justice and Health and Human Services (HHS). U.S. District Court Judge Sean F. Cox also ordered Suresh Chand, of Warren, Mich., to pay $9,769,113 in restitution, jointly with co-defendants, and to serve three years of supervised release following his prison term.  Chand, 46, pleaded guilty on Sept. 2, 2009, to one count of conspiracy to commit health care fraud and one count of conspiracy to launder money. Between approximately January 2003 and March 2007, Chand and his co-conspirators submitted claims to the Medicare program totaling more than $18 million for physical and occupational therapy services that were never provided. Medicare actually paid approximately $8.5 million on those claims.  In addition, co-conspirator Jose Castro-Ramirez submitted approximately $1.2 million in claims to the Medicare program for "home visits" supposedly provided to beneficiaries recruited into the scheme by Chand and his co-conspirators. Medicare paid approximately $780,000 on those claims. After the proceeds of the fraud were obtained from Medicare, Chand acknowledged that he laundered the funds through a series of transactions using shell companies designed to conceal the nature, source, location, ownership and control of the tainted funds.NoneNone    On March 11, 2010, a federal jury convicted Dr. Jose Castro-Ramirez of conspiracy to commit health care fraud, health care fraud and money laundering for his role in the conspiracy.None  Todays result was announced by Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Criminal Division; U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Michigan Barbara L. McQuade; Special Agent in Charge Andrew G. Arena of the FBIs Detroit Field Office; and Special Agent in Charge Lamont Pugh III of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector Generals (HHS-OIG) Chicago Regional Office.  This case is being prosecuted by Senior Trial Attorney John K. Neal and Trial Attorney Gejaa T. Gobena and Special Assistant U.S. Attorney Thomas Beimers from the Eastern District of Michigan. The case was investigated by the FBI and HHS-OIG, and was brought as part of the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, supervised by the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of Michigan.  Since their inception in March 2007, Strike Force operations in seven districts have obtained indictments of more than 500 individuals who collectively have falsely billed the Medicare program for approximately $1.1 billion. In addition, HHSs Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, working in conjunction with the HHS-OIG, are taking steps to increase accountability and decrease the presence of fraudulent providers.None