David Daoud Wright, aka Dawud Sharif Abdul Khaliq, aka Dawud Sharif Abdul Khaliq, 28, of Everett, Massachusetts, was convicted of conspiracy to provide material support to the Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham (ISIS), a designated foreign terrorist organization; conspiracy to commit acts of terrorism transcending national boundaries; conspiracy to obstruct justice; and obstruction of justice. Acting Assistant Attorney General for National Security Dana J. Boente, Acting U.S. Attorney William D. Weinreb for the District of Massachusetts and Special Agent in Charge (SAC) Harold H. Shaw of the FBIs Boston Field Division made the announcement today. Mr. Wright conspired to provide material support to ISIS and plotted to kill innocent civilians on U.S. soil and to wage violence against our government on behalf of the foreign terrorist organization, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Boente. Mr. Wright will now be held accountable for his crimes. The National Security Divisions highest priority is counterterrorism, and we will remain vigilant in our efforts to disrupt potential attacks in the United States and to hold accountable those who seek to provide material support to foreign terrorist organizations. I want to thank the many agents, analysts and prosecutors who are responsible for this result. Mr. Wright intended to wage war against the United States on behalf of ISIS, said Acting U.S. Attorney Weinreb. Despite the fact that he was born and raised in Massachusetts, Mr. Wright swore allegiance to ISIS, a foreign terrorist organization, and plotted attacks that he hoped would cause more harm than the Boston Marathon Bombings. Todays conviction ensures that Mr. Wright will never again endanger the lives of innocent Americans or recruit others on behalf of a violent enemy of this country. I commend the efforts of the law enforcement officers who investigated and halted Mr. Wrights plans and the prosecutors who brought the case to a successful conclusion. NoneNone Beginning in at least February 2015, Wright began discussing ISIS call to kill non-believers in the United States with Rahim and Rovinski. They began plotting and recruiting members for their martyrdom operation. In March 2015, Wright drafted organizational documents for a Martyrdom Operations Cell and conducted internet search queries about firearms, the effectiveness of tranquilizers on human subjects and the establishment of secret militias in the United States. Simultaneously, Rahim was communicating with an ISIS member overseas, Junaid Hussain. In August 2015, Hussain was killed in an airstrike in Raqqah, Syria.  Beginning in or about May 2015, Hussain communicated directly with Rahim. Rahim in turn communicated Hussains instructions to Wright, with regard to the murder of an individual residing in New York. Wright, Rovinski and Rahim conspired to commit attacks and kill persons inside the United States on behalf of ISIS. In preparation for their attack, Rovinski conducted research on weapons that could be used to behead their victims. While detained pending trial, Rovinski sought to continue their planned attacks and wrote letters to Wright from prison discussing ways to take down the U.S. government and decapitate non-believers.  On June 2, 2015, Rahim was shot and killed after he attacked law enforcement officers in a Roslindale, Massachusetts, parking lot. Within minutes of learning this from a family member, Wright deleted data from his laptop computer by restoring it to factory settings and deleting call logs on his cellphone that showed he had spoken to Rahim that morning. None This investigation was conducted by the Boston Joint Terrorism Task Force (JTTF); the Boston Police Department; Massachusetts State Police; Everett Police Department; and Customs and Border Protection. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney B. Stephanie Siegmann of the District of Massachusettss National Security Unit and Trial AttorneyGregory R. Gonzalez of theNational Security Divisions Counterterrorism Section.