  WASHINGTON  Attorney General Eric Holder and the Department of Justices Bureau of Justice Assistance, in collaboration with the National Crime Prevention Council (NCPC), today announced a new public education campaign to combat the purchase and sale of counterfeit and pirated products. The campaign, launched at the White House, will educate the public on various forms of intellectual property theft, from counterfeit consumer goods and pharmaceuticals to illegal downloads and other pirated materials. The campaign will highlight the potential health, safety and economic consequences for American citizens.   Intellectual property (IP) crime refers to the violation of criminal laws that protect copyrights, patents, trademarks, other forms of intellectual property and trade secrets, both in the United States and abroad. IP crimes can destroy jobs, suppress innovation in the United States and jeopardize the health and safety of consumers. In some cases, these activities are used to fund dangerous or even violent criminal enterprises and organized crime networks.   "As our country continues to recover from once-in-a-generation economic challenges, the need to safeguard intellectual property rights  and to protect Americans from intellectual property crimes  has never been more urgent, said Attorney General Holder. Through this new public education campaign, we are encouraging the American people to become vigilant partners in identifying and disrupting intellectual property crimes. With their help, I am confident that we can build upon our recent successes in combating intellectual property theft, bringing criminals to justice and protecting consumers and innovators.   Intellectual property theft is not a victimless crime  it affects everyone and damages our economy, said Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Justice Programs Laurie O. Robinson. We are proud to work with the White House and NCPC toward reducing the demand for counterfeit products through educating the public about intellectual property crime. None   Attorney General Holder and Assistant Attorney General Robinson were joined at todays campaign launch by Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator in the Executive Office of the President Victoria Espinel, Director of Immigration and Customs at the Department of Homeland Security John Morton, Acting Deputy Secretary of Commerce Rebecca M. Blank, and President and CEO of the National Crime Prevention Council Ann M. Harkins. None None