  WASHINGTON - The Department of Justice Tax Division today announced highlights of its work during the past year to defend and enforce the nations tax laws.  The Tax Division has assisted the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in tracking down tax cheats who use offshore accounts, combating abusive tax shelters, stopping tax defiers and shutting down tax schemes and scams. During FY 2008, the Tax Division also successfully defended refund suits against the United States representing claims of nearly $803 million, and collected, through affirmative litigation, over $178 million. The Divisions budget in that period was less than $93 million.  "It is important for the vast majority of taxpayers who pay their tax liabilities on time and in full, to know that those taxpayers who dont will be held fully accountable, either civilly or criminally or both" said Acting Assistant Attorney General John A. DiCicco.None  Combating Offshore Tax EvasionNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNone  Curbing High-End Tax SheltersNone  During the past year, the Justice Department and the IRS have continued their civil and criminal enforcement efforts against the promoters and facilitators of abusive tax shelters. Abusive shelters for large corporations and high-income individuals have cost the U.S. Treasury many billions annually, according to Treasury Department estimates. The Tax Division also has had great success in federal court defending the U.S. Treasury against tax shelter-related claims of large companies and individual investors. The Tax Division is currently litigating approximately 94 civil tax shelter cases or groups of cases. Among the successes during the past year in this area are the following:None  Stopping Tax DefiersNoneNone  The Tax Defier Initiative, which the Tax Division announced in April 2008, targets persons who attempt to undermine our entire tax system. Tax defier cases traditionally involve individuals who spout rhetoric denying the fundamental validity of the tax laws as an excuse for not paying taxes, while also availing themselves of the benefits and rights that the United States provides to its citizens and residents. The number of tax defier cases referred for investigation or prosecution increased significantly during fiscal year 2008.  The success rate in tax defier prosecutions is very high. Some examples:  None  In the past decade, the Justice Department has sought and obtained injunctions against over 300 promoters of tax fraud schemes, including a record 71 promoters in fiscal year 2008. These injunctions have stopped promoters from selling tax evasion schemes on the Internet, at seminars, or though other means. The tax scam promoters the government has sought to enjoin have cost the U.S. Treasury several billion dollars, and have had hundreds of thousands of customers. Among the governments results in this area are:NoneNone