  WASHINGTON  The Department of Justice announced today that it has entered into a settlement agreement with the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA) that, if approved by the court, will resolve the complaint of pattern or practice religious discrimination filed by the United States against WMATA under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.  The United States filed a complaint in U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia in September 2008, alleging that WMATA violated Title VII by failing to reasonably accommodate and provide equal employment opportunities to employees and prospective employees whose religious practices require an accommodation from WMATAs uniform policy for bus operators and similarly situated employees. The United States also alleged that WMATA discriminated against Gloria Jones who applied and met all of the minimum qualifications for bus operator position, but could not comply for religious reasons with the portion of WMATAs uniform policy that required bus operators to wear pants. At the start of the orientation process, Ms. Jones requested an accommodation that would allow her to wear a skirt instead of pants, consistent with her religious practice, along with the rest of the bus operator uniform. WMATA summarily denied her request for a religious accommodation and terminated the hiring process.  Under the terms of the settlement agreement, WMATA is required to implement and distribute a religious accommodation policy consistent with Title VIIs requirement to reasonably accommodate the religious practices of all employees and prospective employees. WMATA also is required to provide mandatory training on religious discrimination and accommodation for its supervisory employees. Additionally, WMATA will pay $47,324 to Jones and $2,500 to each of the two other individuals who requested but were denied an accommodation from WMATAs uniform policy, according to terms of the agreement.  "This settlement agreement sends a clear message that the Department of Justice will not tolerate religious discrimination by employers," said Loretta King, Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division. "I am pleased that WMATA has agreed to end its discriminatory practice and put into place mechanisms to protect the religious practices of its current and future employees."None