NoneNoneEEOC and DOJ share enforcement authority for public sector employers under Title VII. The EEOC receives, investigates and mediates charges of discrimination against public employers. Where the EEOC finds reasonable cause to believe an unlawful employment practice has occurred, the agency works with the employer to negotiate a mutually agreeable resolution to the charge. If conciliation of a charge fails, the EEOC refers the charge and its investigative file to DOJ, which has sole authority within the federal government to file a lawsuit against public employers under Title VII.The MOU includes provisions for the coordination of the investigation of charges of discrimination on the basis of any characteristic protected by Title VII, while respecting the distinct responsibilities and enforcement priorities of each agency. Further, the MOU includes provisions for sharing information, as appropriate and to the extent allowable under law.This MOU codifies a pilot project launched in 2009 by DOJ and EEOC. The pilot, which began with four of EEOCs district offices, has been expanded over the years and now includes the Chicago, Indianapolis, Los Angeles, New York, Philadelphia and San Francisco District Offices, as well as the Washington, D.C. Field Office, among others. Over the years, the pilot has served to enhance the effectiveness of the nations equal employment opportunity enforcement program in the public sector, ensuring the efficient use of resources and a consistent enforcement strategy.The MOU brings to life our vision to approach our shared Title VII enforcement responsibilities as a partnership, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Gupta. It institutionalizes that partnership and provides a concrete framework for expanding our collaborations and increasing our effectiveness in protecting the employment rights of public sector workers.Our state and local governments provide essential services that affect all of us every day in every part of our lives, said EEOC Chair Yang. One of the greatest tools that our public institutions have for inspiring trust and credibility in our communities is to ensure that all public employees enjoy equal opportunity at work. That is the significance of the MOU we sign today.NoneThe MOU is just one example of the enforcement partnership between the EEOC and DOJ. The agencies collaborate on several interagency taskforces and working groups, including the Federal Interagency Reentry Council, the National Equal Pay Enforcement Taskforce, the Curb Cuts to the Middle Class Initiative, the Task Force to Monitor and Combat Human Trafficking, the Interagency Working Group for the Consistent Enforcement of Federal Labor, Employment and Immigration Laws, and most recently an interagency working group on police force diversity.None