    WASHINGTON  The Justice Department filed a consent decree today in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia after reaching an agreement with King George County, Va., that will allow for the countys bailout from its status as a covered jurisdiction under the special provisions of the Voting Rights Act. If approved by the court, the bailout will exempt the county from the preclearance requirements of Section 5 of the act.      Covered jurisdictions, as determined according to Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act, are required under Section 5 of the act to seek preclearance from the U.S. District Court in the District of Columbia or from the attorney general for any changes in voting qualifications, standards, practices or procedures, prior to their implementation.  Section 4 of the act provides that a covered jurisdiction may seek to bailout, or remove itself from coverage, and therefore be exempted from the preclearance requirements, by seeking a declaratory judgment before a three-judge panel in federal district court.  A bailout judgment can only be issued if the court determines that the jurisdiction meets certain eligibility requirements for bailout contained in the statute, including a 10-year record of nondiscrimination in voting-related actions. The act also provides that the attorney general can consent to entry of a judgment of bailout if, based upon investigation, the attorney general is satisfied that the jurisdiction meets the eligibility requirements.     King George County filed its bailout action in U.S. District Court in Washington, D.C. on Dec. 7, 2011.  County officials had contacted the attorney general prior to filing its action, indicating that the county was interested in seeking bailout.  The county provided the Justice Department with substantial information, and the department conducted an investigation to determine the countys eligibility.  Based on that investigation, the department is satisfied that the county meets the Voting Rights Acts requirements for bailout.     The department conducted its own investigation and reviewed and evaluated the information provided by the county.  Following this review, the department determined that the county is eligible for a bailout, said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division.  I appreciate the countys cooperation in all aspects of this investigation.  This cooperation has allowed the parties to reach a resolution consistent with the requirements of the Voting Rights Act.     The consent decree details the legal and factual basis for a bailout determination and, if approved, will grant the countys request.  The court will retain jurisdiction for 10 years.  The action can be reopened upon motion of the attorney general or any aggrieved person where the party alleges conduct by the county that would have originally precluded the county from bailing out if it had occurred during the 10 year period preceding entry of the consent decree.  None