    Kevin P. Mahoney of Attleboro, Mass., was sentenced today to 60 months in prison, following trial convictions on corruptly endeavoring to obstruct the administration of the Internal Revenue laws, filing false tax returns with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and criminal contempt of court, the Justice Department and the IRS announced.  U.S. District Judge Joseph L. Tauro presided over the trial and imposed the sentence.  A Boston jury convicted licensed stockbroker, insurance agent and financial advisor Mahoney on Jan. 25, 2012.   Mahoney was charged with one count of corruptly endeavoring to obstruct the administration of the Internal Revenue laws, eight counts of contempt of court and eight counts of filing false tax returns.   He was convicted on all counts.   Judge Tauro also ordered Mahoney to pay $367,000 in restitution to the IRS.  Mahoney was remanded to prison immediately following the sentencing hearing. None     The evidence also showed that Mahoney submitted to the IRS false individual income tax returns for the years 2000 through 2006 that he knew failed to report more than $1.3 million in taxable income received from various financial institutions.   Along with his tax returns, Mahoney had submitted altered IRS Forms 1099-MISC on which he changed to zero the amount of non-employee compensation that the financial institutions had reported paying him.   For instance, Mahoney attached to his 2006 tax return an altered Form 1099-MISC in which he claimed that a life insurance company paid him non-employee compensation of zero when it had actually paid him approximately $73,000.   Mahoney also filed a false 2007 Nonresident Alien Tax Return in which he falsely claimed a refund of almost $389,000.  None     The case was investigated by Special Agents from IRS - Criminal Investigation and was prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Jeffrey McLellan and Kenneth Vert of the Justice Departments Tax Division.   Assistant Attorney General Kathryn Keneally of the Tax Division commended the special agents and thanked U.S. Attorney Carmen M. Ortiz and her entire office for their assistance. None