Recovery Home Care Inc., Recovery Home Care Services Inc. (collectively Recovery Home Care) and National Home Care Holdings LLC have agreed to pay $1.1 million to resolve allegations that the Recovery Home Care entities violated the False Claims Act by improperly paying doctors for referrals of home health care services provided to Medicare patients, the Department of Justice announced today. The Recovery Home Care entities provide home health care services to Medicare beneficiaries and were purchased by National Home Care Holdings LLC in 2012, after the conduct addressed by the settlement occurred.Health care providers that attempt to profit by providing illegal inducements will be held accountable, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer of the Justice Departments Civil Division. We will continue to advocate for the appropriate use of Medicare funds and the proper care of our senior citizens.From 2009 through 2012, Recovery Home Care, headquartered in West Palm Beach, Florida, allegedly paid dozens of physicians thousands of dollars per month to perform patient chart reviews. According to the governments lawsuit, the physicians were over-compensated for any actual work they performed and, in reality, payments to the physicians were used to induce them to refer their patients to Recovery Home Care, in violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute and the Stark Law.Inducements of this kind are designed to improperly influence a physicians independent medical judgment, said U.S. Attorney A. Lee Bentley III of the Middle District of Florida. This lawsuit and todays settlement attests to our offices on-going commitment to safeguard federal health care program beneficiaries from the effects of such illegal conduct.The Anti-Kickback Statute and the Stark Law are intended to ensure that a physicians medical judgment is not compromised by improper financial incentives. The Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce referrals of items or services covered by federal health care programs, including Medicare. The Stark Law forbids a home health care provider from billing Medicare for certain services referred by physicians who have a financial relationship with the entity.NoneThis settlement illustrates the governments emphasis on combating health care fraud and marks another achievement for the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT) initiative, which was announced in May 2009 by the Attorney General and the Secretary of Health and Human Services. The partnership between the two departments has focused efforts to reduce and prevent Medicare and Medicaid financial fraud through enhanced cooperation. One of the most powerful tools in this effort is the False Claims Act. Since January 2009, the Justice Department has recovered a total of more than $23.8 billion through False Claims Act cases, with more than $15.2 billion of that amount recovered in cases involving fraud against federal health care programs.The settlement was the result of a coordinated effort by the Civil Divisions Commercial Litigation Branch, the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Middle District of Florida and HHS-OIG.None