Biotronik Inc. of Lake Oswego, Oregon, has agreed to pay the United States $4.9 million to resolve allegations made under the False Claims Act that the company made various improper payments to induce physicians to use devices that it manufactured and sold, the Justice Department announced today.When medical device manufacturers make improper payments to physicians, they encourage medical decision-making based on financial gain rather than the best interests of patients, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Joyce R. Branda for the Justice Departments Civil Division. Todays resolution demonstrates the Department of Justices continuing commitment to ensuring that beneficiaries of federal health care programs receive appropriate medical care.The settlement resolves allegations that Biotronik, through the payment of kickbacks to physicians, caused hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers to submit false claims to Medicare and Medicaid for the implantation of Biotronik pacemakers, defibrillators and cardiac resynchronization therapy devices. Biotronik allegedly induced electrophysiologists and cardiologists practicing in Nevada and Arizona to continue using Biotronik devices, or to convert to Biotronik devices, by paying the implanting physician in the form of repeated meals at expensive restaurants and inflated payments for membership on a physician advisory board.Todays resolution of claims underscores one of the key purposes of the Anti-Kickback law  to ensure that the judgment exercised by health care providers in treating Medicare and Medicaid patients is not influenced by illegal payments, said U.S. Attorney Benjamin Wagner for the Eastern District of California.NoneThis settlement illustrates the governments emphasis on combating health care fraud and marks another achievement for the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT) initiative, which was announced in May 2009 by the Attorney General and the Secretary of Health and Human Services. The partnership between the two departments has focused efforts to reduce and prevent Medicare and Medicaid financial fraud through enhanced cooperation. One of the most powerful tools in this effort is the False Claims Act. Since January 2009, the Justice Department has recovered a total of more than $23 billion through False Claims Act cases, with more than $14.8 billion of that amount recovered in cases involving fraud against federal health care programs.The settlement with Biotronik Inc. was the result of a coordinated effort among the Civil Division, the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of California, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services-Office of Inspector General and the FBI.None