Awards Include Over $56.3 Million for Responses to Violence Against Women in Indian Country Associate Attorney General Rachel Brand today announced more than $130 million in Department of Justice grants to combat violence against women, improve public safety, serve victims of crime, and support youth programs in American Indian and Alaska Native communities. Supporting our tribal partners as they work to protect their communities remains fundamental to our mission at the Department of Justice, said Brand. These awards stand as a clear expression of our support for Native American women and tribal self-determination and reflect the vital role we believe American Indian tribes and Alaska Native villages play in ensuring the safety of all our citizens. Associate Attorney General Brand, the Departments third ranking official, will make the announcement as part of her remarks during the Departments participation in the 12th Annual Government-to-Government Violence Against Women Tribal Consultation on the reservation of the Fort McDowell Yavapai Nation in Fountain Hills, Arizona.  On Wednesday, Associate Attorney General Brand will visit a domestic violence shelter in the Gila River Indian Community. Gila River will receive two grant awards this year: one that supports the tribes implementation of special domestic violence jurisdiction under the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act and one to enhance the safety of rural victims of sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence and stalking.  None None CTAS grants are designed to enhance law enforcement practices, expand victim services and sustain crime prevention and intervention efforts. Awards cover nine purpose areas: public safety and community policing; justice systems planning; alcohol and substance abuse; corrections and correctional alternatives; childrens justice act partnerships; services for victims of crime; violence against women; juvenile justice; and tribal youth programs. American Indians and Alaska Natives experience disproportionate rates of violence and victimization and often encounter significant obstacles to culturally relevant services. CTAS funding helps tribes develop and strengthen their justice systems response to crime, while expanding services to meet their communities public safety needs. Todays announcement is part of the Justice Departments ongoing initiative to increase engagement, coordination and action on public safety in American Indian and Alaska Native communities. None