  WASHINGTON  Forty-one members of various street gangs have been charged in indictments or criminal complaints unsealed today in five judicial districts, the Department of Justice announced today.   The federal indictments and complaints unsealed today charge members and associates of a variety of street gangs, including: NoneNoneNoneNoneNone   The charges in these separate cases relate to a wide range of alleged illegal activity, including racketeering conspiracy, murder, murder conspiracy, narcotics trafficking, robbery and gun trafficking.   The defendants will make initial court appearances in the respective districts in which they are charged.   Teams of federal, state and local law enforcement officers have today arrested 29 of these defendants, with additional arrests expected.   Gangs threaten the safety and stability of neighborhoods across our nation, said Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Criminal Division. Gangs spread fear in our communities, trading in guns, drugs, and violence, and they cause too many young people to choose lives of crime. The Justice Department is fighting back, against both local street gangs and large organized criminal enterprises with international reach. With the coordinated enforcement actions announced today, we are sending an unmistakable message -- thatwe are committed to dismantling gangs both large and small, and from coast to coast.   Although these cases are in different parts of the country, they illustrate the common threats gang members pose to our communities, said Assistant Director Kevin Perkins of the FBIs Criminal Investigative Division.   Gangs were once found in big cities, but their operations are now migrating to rural areas.   The types of offenses gang members commit are also changing, from drug running and petty crimes to home invasions and health care fraud.   The FBI will use our task forces, undercover operations, and enhanced surveillance techniques to dismantle gangs to restore order to neighborhoods they terrorize. None   ICEs work continues to have a significant impact on some ofthe mostruthless gangs in the country, said Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Director John Morton. Gangs thrive on violence, violence that is often fueled by profits from their illegal activities. Our goal in targeting these dangerous street gangs is to disrupt their criminal activities and ultimately to dismantle entire organizations. None   The Houston indictment (U.S. v. Jeffrey Juarez, et al) of the Tri-City Bombers charges 13 individuals with conspiring to sell cocaine and ecstasy and with firearm-related offenses.   The nine Los Angeles indictments (U.S. v. Soto Martinez; U.S. v. Castellon and Reynosa; and U.S. v. Bravo, U.S. v. Jaime Garcia; U.S. v. Moises Limon; U.S. v. Luis Rodriguez; U.S. v. Blanco and Avalos; U.S. v. Villa and Melena; U.S. v. Espinosa) involving the Colonia Chiques gang in Oxnard, Calif., charge 12 members with trafficking methamphetamine, crack cocaine and heroin.   Additional Colonia Chiques members have been charged in California state court. None    The Las Vegas indictment (U.S. v. Jesus Guadalupe Felix Burgos, et al) charges two gang members and others with conspiracy to distribute methamphetamine and distribution of methamphetamine from July 2009 to the present. None   The charges carry a variety of maximum penalties, including up to life in prison on certain charges.   The charges announced today are merely allegations, and defendants are presumed innocent unless proven guilty in a court of law.   Since Feb. 1, 2011, additional charges against gang members have also been resolved in court, including: guilty pleas on Feb. 1 and 2, 2011, by four Crips members in Pittsburgh, Penn; a guilty plea by a Bloods member in Nashville, Tenn., on Feb. 8, 2011; a guilty plea by a Latin Kings leader on Feb. 3, 2011, in Greenbelt, Md.; and a life prison sentence imposed on a Grape Street Crips gang leader in Los Angeles for drug trafficking convictions.   In San Francisco, two MS-13 members each were sentenced on Feb. 8, 2011, to 20 years in prison for their gang-related crimes.   Also on Feb. 8, 2011, a Montes Park gang member was sentenced in Boston to 15 years in prison for being a felon in possession of a firearm.   Finally, on Feb. 3, 2011, a Cathedral gang member in Boston was sentenced to 21 months in prison for cocaine distribution.   In total, 112 new defendants have been arrested, charged, pleaded guilty or been sentenced in February 2011 as part of the departments ongoing efforts to combat gangs and gang-related violence in the United States. NoneNoneNoneNoneNone  In addition, the Criminal Division has announced efforts to merge its Gang Unit and Organized Crime and Racketeering Section, bringing together an elite group of prosecutors with extensive knowledge and experience in combating criminal groups.   The charged defendants will be prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys from each of the respective districts in which the cases were brought.   The cases charged in Washington; Greenbelt, Md.; Nashville, Pittsburgh and San Francisco are also being prosecuted by trial attorneys from the Criminal Divisions Gang Unit.   The cases were variously investigated by the numerous field offices of the FBI, ATF, and ICE Homeland Security Investigations, as well as numerous additional federal, state and local partners. None