  WASHINGTON Attorney General Eric Holder today joined Cincinnati Mayor Mark Mallory and Director of the Office of Community Oriented Policing (COPS) Bernard Melekian to announce more than $15 million in grant awards to agencies in Ohio through the 2011 COPS Hiring Program.   In total, more than $243 million in grants will be awarded nationwide to 238 law enforcement agencies and municipalities to hire new officers and deputies.   The COPS Hiring Program is a competitive grant program that provides funding directly to state, local and tribal law enforcement agencies to hire police officers dedicated to addressing specific crime and disorder challenges confronting communities.   The grants provide 100 percent funding for the entry-level salaries and benefits of newly-hired, or rehired, full-time officer positions over a three-year period.   Block by block  city by city, department by department, the administration is determined  absolutely determined  to help build capacity, to enable our law enforcement partners to make the most of precious resources and to encourage their most promising and effective public safety efforts, said Attorney General Holder.   For the 2011 COPS Hiring Program, 2,712 applications were received requesting more than $2 billion and 8,999 positions.   Funding decisions were based on an agencys commitment to community policing, crime rates, changes in law enforcement budgets and other local fiscal data (poverty, unemployment, foreclosure rates, etc.).      Cities across the country are dealing with numerous challenges and we are pleased to be able to assist their public safety efforts, said Director Melekian.   Creating and maintaining jobs is a key part of this program.   This funding helps support local departments in their efforts to increase their ranks, enhance their relationship with the community and directly address their public safety concerns.   The 2011 COPS Hiring Program awards will create or help preserve 1,021 sworn law enforcement positions.   The jobs created, preserved, or refilled with COPS Hiring Program funds will advance community policing at the local level and contribute greatly to the quality of life of the citizens in each community. None