A federal court in Orlando, Florida, has permanently barred a Florida man from preparing tax returns for others and owning or operating a tax return preparation business, Acting Assistant Attorney General Caroline D. Ciraolo of the Justice Departments Tax Division announced today.The court also entered a $1 million judgment against Kerny Pierre-Louis of Windermere, Florida, on the United States claim for disgorgement of the proceeds he derived from preparing tax returns. The civil injunction and disgorgement judgment were signed by U.S. District Judge Anne C. Conway of the Middle District of Florida. Pierre-Louis agreed to entry of the injunction and disgorgement judgment, but did not agree to any of the facts alleged in the United States civil complaint.In September 2014, the United States filed a civil injunction complaint against Pierre-Louis alleging that he and his employees prepared fraudulent tax returns for customers. The complaint alleged that return preparers in Pierre-Louiss business targeted primarily low- to moderate-income customers with deceptive and misleading advertisements; prepared and filed fraudulent tax returns to increase their customers refunds; and profited through unconscionable, exorbitant and often undisclosed feesall at the expense of their customers and the U.S. Treasury. According to the complaint, Pierre-Louis and his employees prepared federal tax returns on which they falsely claimed earned income and education credits, reported improper filing statuses, concocted phony businesses, claimed bogus income and expenses related to the non-existent businesses and fabricated job-related expenses. The complaint also named Jehoakim Victor and Lauri Rodriguez, allegedly former managers at Pierre-Louiss tax preparation stores, as defendants. In February 2015, the court permanently enjoined Victor and Rodriguez from preparing tax returns for others and from owning or operating a tax return preparation business. Victor and Rodriguez agreed to entry of the injunction without admitting the allegations in the complaint.None