The Department of Justice and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) today announced a proposed settlement with Barton Solvents Inc. that resolves multiple environmental violations at five of the companys chemical blending and distribution facilities in Iowa, Kansas and Wisconsin.The proposed settlement, in the form of a consent decree lodged today in U.S. District Court in Des Moines, Iowa, requires Barton to pay a civil penalty of $1.1 million and undertake measures to ensure that its blending and packaging processes adhere to safety and environmental requirements.In 2007, violations of the Clean Air Act General Duty Clause resulted in explosions and major fires at two Barton facilities. These explosions and fires led to damage of the facilities, nearby businesses and the evacuation of the facilities and the surrounding communities. EPA inspections at these and other Barton facilities, along with information collected by EPA, found widespread violations of federal and state Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) hazardous waste storage requirements and the Clean Water Act (CWA) Spill Prevention, Control and Countermeasure (SPCC) requirements. These types of violations not only put facilities at risk, but the surrounding communities as well.This settlement requires Barton to take immediate measures to minimize the potential for dangerous environmental releases and provide maximum safety for workers and the communities where its facilities reside. said Assistant Attorney General John C. Cruden of the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division. Barton must also take action in its handling of hazardous waste so that it can achieve full compliance with all state and federal environmental requirements under the RCRA.When companies handling dangerous chemicals fail to comply with environmental laws, catastrophic events can happen, said Region 7 Acting Regional Administrator Mark J. Hague for EPA. Under this settlement, Barton will take steps to ensure safe chemical handling at all its facilities by complying with environmental laws that create safer facilities and communities.Under the settlement, Barton will also hire independent auditors to perform comprehensive environmental compliance audits and correct any additional violations uncovered at all of its facilities, including a facility in West Bend, Wisconsin.The proposed consent decree is subject to a 30-day public comment period and approval by the federal court before it becomes final.None