The Department of Justice and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) today announced a settlement with Duke Energy Corporation to resolve Clean Air Act violations at five coal-fired power plants across North Carolina. The settlement resolves long-standing claims that Duke violated the federal Clean Air Act by unlawfully modifying 13 coal-fired electricity generating units located at the Allen, Buck, Cliffside, Dan River and Riverbend plants, without obtaining air permits and installing and operating the required air pollution control technologies.Duke recently shut down 11 of the 13 units and under today's settlement those shutdowns also become a permanent and enforceable obligation under the consent decree. At the remaining two units, Duke must continuously operate pollution controls and meet interim emission limits before permanently retiring them. In addition, the settlement requires that Duke retire another unit at the Allen plant, spend a total of $4.4 million on environmental mitigation projects and pay a civil penalty of $975,000. The United States is joined in the settlement by co-plaintiffs Environmental Defense, the North Carolina Sierra Club and Environment North Carolina.EPA estimates that the settlement will reduce emissions by approximately 2,300 tons per year from the three Allen units, as compared to recent emission levels. With these additional retirements, total emissions from all 13 allegedly modified units  which were in excess of 51,000 tons in 2000 when the suit was filed  will be zero.The settlement announced today marks another milestone in our ongoing efforts to enforce the Clean Air Act and reduce air pollution from coal-fired power plants, said Assistant Attorney General John C. Cruden for the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division. This settlement is a just and fair resolution to this long-running enforcement action in which we alleged that Duke modified these plants in ways that significantly increased their annual emissions. It is good news for the environment and public health in North Carolina.This settlement brings five more power plants into compliance under EPAs national initiative to cut pollution from the countrys largest sources, said Assistant Administrator Cynthia Giles for EPAs Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance. After many years, weve secured a strong resolution, one that will help reduce asthma attacks and other serious illnesses for the people of North Carolina.NoneThe settlement also requires Duke to spend at least $4.4 million to fund several environmental mitigation projects. These projects include restoring native wildlife and plants on National Park Service and Forest Service lands in North Carolina, a program to help North Carolina residents replace higher polluting wood stoves and fireplaces with cleaner burning alternatives and a program to increase the use of clean energy and energy efficiency measures in economically distressed communities. Other projects may include efforts towards increasing truck stop electrification and electric vehicle charging stations in North Carolina.NoneNoneThe settlement was lodged with the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of North Carolina and is subject to a 30-day public comment period and final court approval.None