None The Department of Justice is committed to protecting consumers from fraud, said Stuart F. Delery, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Division. As these guilty pleas demonstrate, we will be particularly vigilant towards schemes that target specific populations, and we will not be deterred by those who seek to evade detection by changing the name of their fraudulent companies. Carrascos and Giojas telemarketers promoted products such as vitamins, lotions and English-language training products. They also promised buyers would receive valuable gifts such as expensive watches and perfumes, gift cards and medical assistance and insurance. However, the companies frequently did not deliver products ordered by consumers. Since the companies did not have many of the products they promised to send to consumers, consumers received other products instead. Then, after consumers refused delivery of the companies shipments, the Argentinian phone room telemarketers called and falsely threatened consumers with arrest, deportation or fines on their gas and electric bills. Wifredo A. Ferrer, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, stated:  Fraud, of any kind, is unacceptable. Fraud by threat and intimidation is particularly troublesome because it targets the perceived, but oftentimes real, vulnerabilities of those preyed upon. In this case, the defendants targeted Spanish-speaking consumers and falsely threatened them with arrest and deportation when the consumers refused delivery for products they had not ordered. Such tactics are intolerable. Together with the Department of Justices Civil Division, Consumer Protection Branch, we stand united to stem such fraud.None Also in pleading guilty, Carrasco and Gioja admitted their telemarketers falsely represented to consumers that they were affiliated with Spanish-language television networks. The alleged fraud first came to light when the Spanish language network Univision informed the USPIS they believed a company was involved in a fraud scheme in which it misrepresented its affiliation with the network. Subsequently, the Postal Inspection Service investigated the case, submitted the affidavit in support of the criminal complaint and arrested the defendants. "The U.S. Postal Inspection Service is committed to unraveling operations that scheme to defraud innocent people, said Ronald Verrochio, U.S. Postal Inspector in Charge in Miami. "Our postal inspectors aggressively investigate mail fraud scams such as this one, with a concerted effort to protect consumers.None Assistant Attorney General Delery commended the Postal Inspection Service for their investigative efforts and thanked the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of Florida for their contributions to the civil case. The criminal case was prosecuted by Assistant Director Richard Goldberg with the Department of Justices Civil Division, Consumer Protection Branch and Assistant U.S. Attorney Timothy Abraham of the Southern District of Florida.