  WASHINGTON  Two southern California men pleaded guilty today in the Northern District of California for their roles in a scheme to defraud nearly 1,000 debit card holders by using stolen bank account information to withdraw money from ATMs, announced Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Justice Departments Criminal Division; U.S. Attorney Melinda Haag of the Northern District of California; and Andrew C. Adelmann, Special Agent in Charge for the U.S. Secret Service (USSS) San Francisco Field Office.  Edward Arakelyan, 21, and Arman Vardanyan, 22, were each charged in a criminal information filed on March 5, 2012, in U.S. District Court in Oakland, Calif., with one count of conspiracy to commit bank fraud, one count of bank fraud, and one count of aggravated identity theft.None  Arakelyan and Vardanyan admitted that in about July 2011 they participated in a scheme to defraud bank account holders and financial institutions by obtaining 952 stolen bank cards and traveling to northern California to withdraw from ATMs as much money as possible using these stolen bank accounts. According to court documents, Arakelyan and Vardanyan possessed two loaded firearms, a GPS device pre-programmed with ATM locations and eight mobile telephones, all to further their scheme.  The information charges that these stolen cards were linked to a 2011 theft of a reported 94,000 debit and credit card account numbers from customers buying goods at 84 Michaels Stores Inc. across the United States. The perpetrators of that security breach replaced about 84 authentic personal identification number pads, used by the stores to process debit and credit card purchases, with fraudulent pads from which they downloaded customers banking information. After this breach, financial institutions reported tens of thousands of incidents of fraudulent activity linked to customers who had visited the affected Michaels stores. Arakelyan and Vardanyan are among those who executed one aspect of this scheme.  The conspiracy to commit bank fraud charge and the bank fraud charge each carry a statutory maximum sentence of 30 years in federal prison. The aggravated identity theft charge carries a mandatory additional sentence of two years. The sentencing of Arakelyan and Vardanyan is scheduled for July 24, 2012, before U.S. District Judge Claudia Wilken in Oakland.  This case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Paul Rosen of the Fraud Section in the Justice Departments Criminal Division, and Special Assistant U.S. Attorney Tamara Weber for the Northern District of California. The investigation was conducted by the USSS San Francisco Field Office with substantial support from the USSS Chicago and Los Angeles Field Offices, and from the Glendale and Pleasant Hill, Calif., Police Departments.None