  WASHINGTON  A former managing director for Morgan Stanleys real estate business in China pleaded guilty today for his role in a conspiracy to evade the companys internal accounting controls, announced Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Justice Departments Criminal Division; U.S. Attorney Loretta E. Lynch for the Eastern District of New York; and Janice Fedarcyk, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBIs New York Field Office.  Garth Peterson, 42, an American citizen living in Singapore, pleaded guilty to one-count criminal information charging him with conspiring to evade internal accounting controls that Morgan Stanley was required to maintain under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). Peterson pleaded guilty in Brooklyn, N.Y., before Senior U.S. District Judge Jack B. Weinstein.  Mr. Peterson admitted today that he actively sought to evade Morgan Stanleys internal controls in an effort to enrich himself and a Chinese government official, said Assistant Attorney General Breuer. As a managing director for Morgan Stanley, he had an obligation to adhere to the companys internal controls; instead, he lied and cheated his way to personal profit. Because of his corrupt conduct, he now faces the prospect of prison time.  This defendant used a web of deceit to thwart Morgan Stanleys efforts to maintain adequate controls designed to prevent corruption. Despite years of training, he circumvented those controls for personal enrichment. We take seriously our role in detecting and prosecuting efforts to evade those controls, said U.S. Attorney Lynch.  The defendant engaged in a pattern of self-dealing and deception that perpetuated his unjust enrichment, said FBI Assistant Director Fedarcyk. He not only circumvented his employers internal controls; he violated the law.  According to court documents, Morgan Stanley maintained a system of internal controls meant to ensure accountability for its assets and to prevent employees from offering, promising or paying anything of value to foreign government officials. Morgan Stanleys internal policies, which were updated regularly to reflect regulatory developments and specific risks, prohibited bribery and addressed corruption risks associated with the giving of gifts, business entertainment, travel, lodging, meals, charitable contributions and employment. Morgan Stanley frequently trained its employees on its internal policies, the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws. Between 2002 and 2008, Morgan Stanley trained various groups of Asia-based personnel on anti-corruption policies 54 times. During the same period, Morgan Stanley trained Peterson on the FCPA seven times and reminded him to comply with the FCPA at least 35 times. Morgan Stanleys compliance personnel regularly monitored transactions, randomly audited particular employees, transactions and business units, and tested to identify illicit payments. Moreover, Morgan Stanley conducted extensive due diligence on all new business partners and imposed stringent controls on payments made to business partners.None  The Securities and Exchange Commission today announced civil charges and a settlement with Peterson.  The criminal case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Stephen J. Spiegelhalter of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney John Nowak of the Eastern District of New York. The Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs also provided assistance in this matter. The case was investigated by the FBIs New York Field Office.