WASHINGTON - The Justice Department today announced an agreement with the city of Humboldt, Kan., to improve access to all aspects of civic life for individuals with disabilities. The agreement was reached under Project Civic Access (PCA), the departments wide-ranging initiative to ensure that cities, towns and counties throughout the country comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). The department has now reached 197 agreements under the PCA initiative, improving access to civic life for more than four million individuals with disabilities nationwide. According to census data, the city population is just under 2,000, and just over 21 percent of Humboldt residents have a disability. Individuals with disabilities must have the opportunity to participate in civic life in every city, town and county in the country, no matter how large or small, and this agreement represents another positive step forward, said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division. We applaud Humboldt officials for their commitment to improving access for all residents and visitors with disabilities to the full range of city programs, activities, services and facilities. Kansans with disabilities have much to contribute, said Barry Grissom, U.S. Attorney for the District of Kansas. This agreement will help remove the barriers that prevent them from participating fully in community life. I am pleased this matter was resolved without protracted litigation. PCA was initiated to ensure that persons with disabilities have an equal opportunity to participate in civic life, a fundamental part of American society. As part of the PCA initiative, Justice Department investigators, attorneys and architects survey state and local government facilities, services and programs in communities across the country to identify the modifications needed for compliance with ADA requirements. The agreements are tailored to address the steps each community must take to improve access. Under the agreement announced today, Humboldt officials will take several important steps to improve access for individuals with disabilities, such as:Todays agreement was reached under Title II of the ADA, which prohibits discrimination against individuals with disabilities by state and local governments. The department will actively monitor compliance with todays agreement, which will remain in effect for three years from Feb. 8, 2012, or until the department has confirmed that all required actions have been completed, whichever is later. None None