The Department of Justice and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) signed an agreement today to strengthen coordination on fair lending enforcement and avoid duplication of their respective federal law enforcement efforts. The Department of Justice welcomes the new tools and resources the CFPB can bring to the fight against lending discrimination, said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division. Cooperation between our two agencies promotes strong and effective civil rights enforcement, and todays agreement will further our ongoing collaborative efforts. Discrimination undermines equal access to credit, said Richard Cordray, Director of the CFPB. Todays agreement is a critical step to better protecting consumers from illegal and discriminatory lending practices. We look forward to continuing our partnership with the Justice Department under this new framework. None Under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the CFPB works with the department and other regulators to promote consistent, efficient and effective enforcement of federal fair lending laws. The Dodd-Frank Act also expressly authorizes the CFPB to conduct joint investigations with the department in matters relating to fair lending. Both the CFPB and the Justice Department have authority to protect against discriminatory lending under the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA). The ECOA makes it illegal for creditors to discriminate against applicants in credit transactions because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, age, income coming from a public assistance program or an applicants exercise of certain consumer protection rights. The department has the authority to bring federal lawsuits to enforce the ECOA against any creditor that engages in a pattern or practice in violation of the ECOA or based on referrals of ECOA violations from federal bank regulators including the CFPB. The CFPB is authorized to bring public enforcement actions against any person subject to the CFPBs supervisory or enforcement authority for violations of the ECOA. The CFPB is also required to refer certain violations of the ECOA to the department for possible enforcement actions. The agencies are committed to cooperation and avoiding duplicative efforts. Todays MOU outlines the general framework for:The agencies will periodically assess the implementation of this agreement and are committed to finding ways to further strengthen their coordination efforts. The CFPBs Office of Fair Lending and Equal Opportunity, together with the bureaus Office of Enforcement, leads the bureaus enforcement of fair lending laws, including the ECOA and the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA). Today, the CFPB published its first annual Fair Lending Report, which highlights the Bureaus recent accomplishments in fair lending. The report discusses the bureaus efforts to fulfill its mandate to ensure fair, equitable, and nondiscriminatory access to credit for American consumers. Additionally, the report fulfills the Bureaus congressional reporting requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act, the ECOA and HMDA. None None The fair lending enforcement work of the CFPB and the Justice Department is part of efforts underway by the Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force (FFETF) which was created to wage an aggressive, coordinated and proactive effort to investigate and prosecute financial crimes. The CFPB and the departments Civil Rights Division are among the co-chairs of the FFETFs Non-Discrimination Working Group. With more than 20 federal agencies, 94 U.S. attorneys offices and state and local partners, its the broadest coalition of law enforcement, investigatory and regulatory agencies ever assembled to combat fraud. The task force has established financial fraud coordinators in every U.S. attorneys office around the country to help make these broad mandates a reality on the ground. Since its formation, the task force has made great strides in facilitating increased investigation and prosecution of financial crimes; enhancing coordination and cooperation among federal, state and local authorities; addressing discrimination in the lending and financial markets and conducting outreach to the public, victims, financial institutions and other organizations.