The Justice Department announced today that the government has filed suit under the False Claims Act against Derish M. Wolff and Salvatore J. Pepe, respectively the former CEO and CFO of Louis Berger Group Inc. (LBG), for conspiring to overbill the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) and other government agencies for costs incurred performing reconstruction contracts in Afghanistan, Iraq, and other countries, the Justice Department announced today. LBG is based in East Orange, New Jersey.Those who do business with the U.S. government should expect appropriate consequences if they do not deal fairly, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer, head of the Justice Departments Civil Division. As this case demonstrates, the government will hold both corporate entities and individuals accountable if they misuse taxpayer funds.The governments complaint alleges that Wolff and Pepe designed and directed various accounting schemes that resulted in LBG billing the government for indirect overhead costs at inflated rates. According to the complaint, for example, Wolff and Pepe shifted portions of salaries of LBG executives and accounting personnel from contracts paid for by foreign and state governments and private entities to contracts paid for by the United States. Wolff and Pepe allegedly certified the false rates and submitted them to the government in annual financial reports.NoneNoneThis matter is being handled by the Civil Divisions Commercial Litigation Branch and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Maryland, with investigative support from the FBI, USAIDs Office of Inspector General, the Defense Criminal Investigative Service and the Defense Contract Audit Agency.I applaud the dedication of USAID-OIG special agents, along with special agents of the FBI and the Defense Criminal Investigative Service, said USAID Inspector General Ann Calvaresi Barr. Their joint investigative work has helped the Justice Department take action against those responsible and signals our continuing commitment to protecting public funds from fraud, waste, and abuse.None