None  Campbells client, Oskar Ren Poch, a resident of Hickory Corners, Mich., was sentenced today to one year of probation and ordered to pay restitution of $217,830.44 and a fine of $100,000. Poch, who owned and operated Trillium Staffing, an employee-leasing company in Kalamazoo, pleaded guilty to corruptly endeavoring to obstruct the administration of the Internal Revenue laws in April 2008 and cooperated with the governments investigation.None  According to statements made in court and public documents, Campbell admitted that he conspired with the tax shelter promoters to sell these purported insurance policies to U.S. taxpayers as a tax deductible product, with the understanding that the purchasers would have most of their premiums returned to them in a non-taxable manner, such as through the use of "loans" from offshore foreign corporations which the defendants helped the U.S. taxpayers set up in tax haven countries like Nevis and the Bahamas. Campbell also admitted that he and the tax shelter promoters agreed to conceal from the IRS several key facts about the returned funds, and that they agreed to alter, conceal and destroy documents regarding the program as well.  According to statements made in court and public documents, after Campbell introduced Poch to the product, Poch caused his companies to purchase more than $3.9 million of this insurance product in the years 1999, 2000 and 2001. Poch improperly deducted the premiums as a business expense, fraudulently saving over $1.63 million in taxes for the three year period. Finally, Poch paid Campbells firm to set up a foreign corporation and trust in Nevis and later the Bahamas, through which Poch later had access to over $3 million of his insurance premiums. As part of the conspiracy, Campbell arranged for Poch to receive millions in the form of "loans" to Poch and his businesses, which were never repaid by Poch.  According to statements made in court and public documents, Poch knowingly provided misleading, incomplete and false answers to IRS revenue agents during a June 2002 interview conducted in a civil audit of his 1999 tax return. Poch admitted that he provided these answers in order to obstruct the IRS audit. However, Poch cooperated with the governments investigation and testified at the trial of Campbells co-conspirators. Since pleading guilty, Poch has repaid the $1.63 million in taxes to the IRS, using, in part the funds left in the foreign corporations bank account.  Acting Assistant Attorney General John A. DiCicco thanked U.S. Attorney Donald A. Davis and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Western District of Michigan for their assistance in the prosecution of this case. Acting Assistant Attorney General DiCicco also thanked Tax Division trial attorneys Richard M. Rolwing, Patrick J. Murray and Jessica Nuzzelillo who prosecuted the case, as well as the IRS-Criminal Investigation agents who investigated the case.None