The Department of Justice, the Department of Housing and Urban Developments (HUD) Office of Inspector General and the Federal Housing Finance Agencys Office of Inspector General, among other federal and state partners, are holding mortgage fraud summits in Las Vegas and Los Angeles today to help protect homeowners in areas hit hardest by these scams. The summit originally planned to be held in Tallahassee, Fla., will be rescheduled due to severe weather in the area. The summits, organized by President Obamas Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Forces (FFETF) Mortgage Fraud Working Group, are an opportunity for homeowners to learn about common mortgage fraud schemes and how to avoid becoming a victim. None None Preventing, detecting and prosecuting mortgage fraud is a top priority of the Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force and its Mortgage Fraud Working Group members, said FFETF Executive Director Michael Bresnick. Its more important than ever that we arm homeowners with the information they need to recognize the predators up front and empower them to avoid falling victim to these devastating scams. Thats why the task force is holding these summits in states hit hardest by the foreclosure crisis. The Nevada Mortgage Fraud Summit will take place today from 12:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. PDT in the Lloyd George Federal Courthouse located at 333 Las Vegas Boulevard South in Las Vegas. Multiple federal, state and local officials, including Nevada Attorney General Catherine Cortez-Masto, will discuss mortgage fraud trends and schemes in southern Nevada, the impact of mortgage fraud on the community and ways in which people can avoid becoming a victim of a mortgage fraud offense. We are continuing to work with our federal, state and local law enforcement partners to investigate and bring to justice the persons who are taking advantage of the housing crisis in Nevada to defraud financial institutions, distressed homeowners and homebuyers, said U.S. Attorney for the District of Nevada Daniel G. Bogden. None The California Mortgage Fraud Summit is taking place today from 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. PDT in the 300 N. Los Angeles Street Federal Building in downtown Los Angeles. The summit involves a wide variety of officials and practitioners dedicated to mortgage fraud enforcement and prevention from the FBI, HUD, Federal Trade Commission, California Attorney Generals Office, California State Bar, California Department of Real Estate and other federal, state, county and local agencies, including the Los Angeles County Department of Consumer Affairs. The Central District of Californias Mortgage Fraud Summit is focused on bringing together resources at every level of both the public and private sectors and at developing a seamless integration of dedicated federal, state and local resources to fight mortgage fraud, raise fraud awareness and ultimately protect homeowners and their families, said U.S. Attorney for the Central District of California Andr Birotte Jr. NoneThe summit being rescheduled in Tallahassee will cover recent trends in mortgage fraud and the impact of mortgage fraud on victims. A broad range of representatives from federal and state law enforcement, consumer groups and financial institutions are expected to participate in this conference. Mortgage fraud, indeed any fraud against consumers, weakens our economy not only by the loss it causes but also by decreasing consumer confidence in our economy. That, in turn, hurts our country, said U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Florida Pamela Marsh. For more information on the summit in Tallahasse, please contact Ginger Golden-Bouk at 850-444-4000. Struggling homeowners can become the targets of fraudsters posing as foreclosure rescue or loan modification experts. Typically these con artists claim they can help struggling homeowners save their home from foreclosure for an upfront fee, even though advance fees are generally prohibited by law and loan counseling and modification services are generally provided free from the lender or from a HUD counseling center. The scams take many forms. Some scammers ask the homeowners to transfer title to their property, make mortgage payments to someone other than the lender, or stop making mortgage payments altogether. Others use false filings in the U.S. Bankruptcy Courts to temporarily stop the foreclosure process, while still others create websites containing false government logos and bold promises to avoid foreclosure in order to deceive the at-risk homeowner. Unfortunately, these fraudsters take the homeowners money and any remaining equity in the house and run, leaving the homeowner penniless and more likely to be foreclosed. If you are behind on your mortgage and seeking assistance, please call toll-free, 888-995-HOPE (4673) for free, comprehensive foreclosure assistance and housing counseling services. NoneNone