None The court order prohibits Bayer from making any claim about the performance or efficacy of any dietary supplement, multivitamin or weight-control product unless, at the time Bayer makes the claim, the company possesses competent and reliable scientific evidence to support the claim. In its motion, the United States alleges that Bayer expressly claims Phillips Colon Health can defend against occasional constipation, diarrhea, and gas and bloating, and impliedly claims that Phillips Colon Health prevents, treats and cures constipation, diarrhea, and gas and bloating, even though the company lacks competent and reliable scientific evidence for those claims. Bayer is required to abide by a longstanding court order to back up claims it makes about the products it sells, said Assistant Attorney General Stuart F. Delery for the departments Civil Division. The Department of Justice will not tolerate companies that seek to gain an unfair advantage over their competitors by promoting to consumers unsubstantiated claims about the health benefits of their products. In its motion, the United States describes Bayers multimillion dollar nationwide marketing campaign for Phillips Colon Health, which includes print advertisements and television commercials featuring The Colon Lady, in addition to claims on the products packaging. The motion further alleges that consumers have paid hundreds of millions of dollars for Phillips Colon Health, even though Bayer lacks the evidence to support the claims of the purported benefits of this product. None In 2007, the United States filed a civil complaint against Bayer alleging that Bayer marketed its One-A-Day WeightSmart multivitamin and dietary supplement with unsubstantiated claims that, among other things, One-A-Day WeightSmart helped prevent some of the weight gain associated with a decline in metabolism in users over the age of 30. The complaint alleged that those unsubstantiated claims violated an order issued in 1991 by the FTC against Bayers predecessor, Miles Inc., that required all claims about the benefits of One-A-Day brand vitamins to be substantiated by competent and reliable scientific evidence. In order to resolve the complaints allegations, in 2007, Bayer agreed to pay a $3.2 million civil penalty and agreed that it would not make unsubstantiated representations regarding the benefits, performance, efficacy, safety or side effects of any dietary supplement, multivitamin or weight-control product. In 2007, the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey entered an order resolving the complaints allegations and prohibiting Bayer from making unsubstantiated claims about its products. Assistant Attorney General Delery commended the efforts of the FTC to investigate Bayers compliance with the 2007 court order and for referring this latest matter for enforcement. This case is being handled by the Civil Divisions Consumer Protection Branch. This motion contains a set of allegations. If this motion is litigated, the government would need to prove the allegations by clear and convincing evidence.