Four Northern California real estate investors have agreed to plead guilty for their role in conspiracies to rig bids and commit mail fraud at public real estate foreclosure auctions in Northern California, the Department of Justice announced.Felony charges were filed today in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California in Oakland against Wesley Barta of Oakland, Irma Galvez of Pacheco, Calif., Stan Kahan of Berkeley, Calif., and Joseph Vesce of San Francisco.To date, as a result of the departments ongoing antitrust investigations into bid rigging and fraud at public real estate foreclosure auctions in Northern California, 35 individuals, including Barta, Galvez, Kahan and Vesce, have agreed to plead or have pleaded guilty.These conspirators manipulated and suppressed the competitive process through their fraudulent and collusive conduct to the detriment of lenders and distressed homeowners, said Bill Baer, Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Department of Justices Antitrust Division. The Antitrust Division will continue to pursue those responsible for these illegal activities.NoneThe same charges were brought against Galvez and Kahan for their involvement in similar conduct in Alameda County, Calif., from November 2008 through May 2010. The department said that the primary purpose of the conspiracies was to suppress and restrain competition and to conceal payoffs in order to obtain selected real estate offered at Alameda and Contra Costa County public foreclosure auctions at non-competitive prices. When real estate properties are sold at these auctions, the proceeds are used to pay off the mortgage and other debt attached to the property, with remaining proceeds, if any, paid to the homeowner. According to court documents, these conspirators paid and received money that otherwise would have gone to pay off the mortgage and other holders of debt secured by the properties, and, in some cases, the defaulting homeowner.The continued success of our investigation into the bid rigging conspiracies at Northern California public foreclosure auctions is evident in todays four guilty pleas, said David J. Johnson, FBI Special Agent in Charge of the San Francisco Field Office. The FBI will remain focused with the Antitrust Division in holding those accountable for such illegal acts.A violation of the Sherman Act carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $1 million fine for individuals. The maximum fine for a Sherman Act charge may be increased to twice the gain derived from the crime or twice the loss suffered by the victim if either amount is greater than $1 million. A count of conspiracy to commit mail fraud carries a maximum sentence of 30 years in prison and a $1 million fine. The government can also seek to forfeit the proceeds earned from participating in the conspiracy to commit mail fraud.NoneNone**The fraud charge(s) referenced in this press release were subsequently dismissed on the governments motion.**