  WASHINGTON  Pelican Refining Company LLC, pleaded guilty today to felony violations of the Clean Air Act and to obstruction of justice charges in federal court in Lafayette, La., announced Ignacia S. Moreno, Assistant Attorney General for the Environment and Natural Resources Division at the Department of Justice, Stephanie A. Finley, U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Louisiana, and Cynthia Giles, Assistant Administrator for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agencys Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance.   If the court sentences according to the terms in todays plea agreement, Pelican will pay $12 million in criminal penalties, including $2 million in community service payments that will go toward various environmental projects in Louisiana, including air pollution monitoring. Pelican would be banned from future refinery operations unless and until it implements an environmental compliance plan, which includes external auditing by independent firms and oversight by a court appointed monitor.  It would mark the largest ever criminal fine in Louisiana for violations of the Clean Air Act.   In pleading guilty, officials of Pelican, headquartered in Houston and operating a refinery in Lake Charles, La., admitted that the company had violated numerous aspects of its permit to operate. The violations were discovered during a March 2006 inspection by the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality (LDEQ) and the EPA, which identified numerous unsafe operating conditions. Pelican also pleaded guilty to obstruction of justice for submitting materially false deviation reports to LDEQ, the agency that administers the federal Clean Air Act in Louisiana.   Pelican has admitted to the following:    Pelican had demonstrated a manifest disregard for accepted practices that are designed to protect human health and the environment, said Assistant Attorney General Moreno. Today, Pelican faces significant penalties for its egregious violations of its Clean Air Act permit and for submitting false information to state officials.   Louisiana is the sportsmans paradise, and this corporation seriously jeopardized our precious environment. The citizens of our community should be appalled by such blatant environmental crimes. Going forward, this refinery will not be able to operate unless it is in full compliance with the law, said U.S. Attorney Finley.   Facilities that operate in our backyards have a responsibility to follow our nation's environmental laws, like the Clean Air Act, which is designed to protect the air we breathe and the local environment, said Assistant Administrator Giles. Todays guilty plea shows that businesses that choose to ignore these critical safeguards and put their employees and the public at risk will face serious consequences.  Our nations environmental laws are designed to protect the air we breathe, the water we drink, and the local environment, said Ivan Vikin, Special Agent in Charge of EPAs criminal enforcement program in Louisiana. Corporations have a responsibility to follow these laws and not cut corners. Today's action shows that if a business chooses to ignore these critical safeguards, putting employees and the public at risk, it can expect to pay a substantial price.   Its unfortunate that an individual or business would skirt the law and put human health and the environment at risk, especially given the progress the state has made in improving air quality, said Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality Secretary Peggy Hatch. Hopefully, the efforts of LDEQ and its state, federal and local partners, will demonstrate that it can be very costly to put the people and environment at risk by disregarding state and federal regulations.   This case illustrates the level of cooperation between the investigative resources within our state and federal law enforcement partners, said Colonel Mike Edmonson, Louisiana State Police Superintendent. Louisiana's Environmental Crimes Task Force, consisting of investigators assigned from state police, LDEQ and EPA, remains committed to investigating and bringing to justice those persons or entities that violate the nations environmental laws and regulations.   Byron Hamilton, the Pelican vice-president who oversaw operations at the Lake Charles refinery since 2005 from an office in Houston pleaded guilty on July 6, 2011, to negligently placing persons in imminent danger of death and serious bodily injury as a result of negligent releases at the refinery. Hamilton faces up to one year in prison and a $200,000 fine for each of the two Clean Air Act counts. None   The criminal investigation is being conducted by the EPA Criminal Investigation Division in Baton Rouge and the Louisiana State Police, with assistance from the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality. The case is being prosecuted by U.S. Attorney Stephanie Finley, Richard A. Udell, Senior Trial Attorney and Trial Attorney Christopher Hale, both with the Environmental Crimes Section of the Environment and Natural Resources Division of the U.S. Department of Justice. None