NoneDuring his plea, Mower admitted that in the early morning hours of Sept. 2, 2010, he constructed a Molotov cocktail by stuffing a fuel-soaked cloth into a beer bottle. He then drove to Madera Planned Parenthood Clinic, lit the Molotov cocktail, and threw it through a ground-floor window of the clinic. As a result of the ensuing fire, the clinic sustained more than $26,000 of damage and had to close for two days.Mower also acknowledged that on Aug. 20, 2010, two days after placing a sign in front of Masjid Madera, a local mosque, that read No temple for the god of terrorism at ground zero. ANB, he threw a brick at the front of the mosque and damaged its facade. On Aug. 24, 2010, Mower left additional signs at the mosque, stating Wake up America, the enemy is here and American Nationalist Brotherhood. Mower admitted that he threw the brick at Masjid Madera because of the race, color or ethnic characteristics of the individuals associated with the mosque.Interference with the lawful work of reproductive health clinics will not be tolerated; nor will attacks directed at places of worship because of the perceived ethnicity of those who worship there, said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights Division. The Department of Justice will aggressively prosecute those who carry out these acts.We will vigorously safeguard the right of Muslim Americans to practice their religion free from the fear of intimidation, and the right of reproductive health centers to conduct their activities free from violence, said U.S. Attorney Ben Wagner for the Eastern District of California. Donny Mowers campaign of hate and intimidation is over, but the work of the U.S. Justice Department in protecting constitutional rights is unending.Sentencing is scheduled for Jan. 6, 2012. Mower faces a prison sentence of five to 20 years and a fine of up to $250,000 on the arson charge. He also faces sentences of up to one year in prison, a fine of up to $100,000, or both, on the damaging religious property and FACE Act charges.This case was investigated by the FBI, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Madera Police Department and the Madera County Sheriffs Department. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Elana Landau for the Eastern District of California and Trial Attorney Chiraag Bains from the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division.