  WASHINGTON    The nations largest nursing home pharmacy, Omnicare Inc. of Covington, Kentucky, will pay $98 million, and drug manufacturer, IVAX Pharmaceuticals of Weston, Florida, will pay $14 million to resolve allegations that Omnicare engaged in kickback schemes with several parties, including IVAX, the Justice Department announced today. Approximately $68.5 million of the settlement proceeds will go to the United States, while $43.5 million has been allocated to cover Medicaid program claims by participating states.  At the same time, the United States announced that it has intervened and filed a complaint against two large nursing home chains, Mariner Health Care Inc. and SavaSeniorCare Administrative Services LLC, both of Atlanta, and their principals, Leonard Grunstein, Murray Forman, and Rubin Schron, for accepting a kickback from Omnicare in return for pharmacy services contracts.None  "These defendants broke the law to take advantage of our nations most vulnerable citizens    the elderly and the poor," said Tony West, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Division of the Department of Justice. "Illegal conduct like this can undermine the medical judgments of health care professionals, lead to patients being prescribed medications they do not need, and drive up the costs of health care." Assistant Attorney General West thanked the collaborative efforts of the Department of Justices Civil Division, the U.S. Attorney for the District of Massachusetts, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, the Food and Drug Administration Office of Criminal Investigations, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.  "Omnicare and other nursing home pharmacies specialize in providing drugs to elderly patients who are often suffering from Alzheimers Disease or dementia and who have little or no control over the drugs they receive," said Michael Loucks, Acting U.S. Attorney for the District of Massachusetts. "Todays settlement provides a strong message to these pharmacies, as well as to pharmaceutical companies and nursing homes, that the government will not tolerate the payment of kickbacks which can distort proper medical judgment and put profits ahead of good medical care."  As part of the settlement, Omnicare and IVAX have agreed to enter into separate corporate integrity agreements with the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services. Those agreements provide for procedures and reviews to be put in place to avoid and promptly detect conduct similar to that which gave rise to these matters.  In a separate action, the United States alleges that Omnicare, Mariner Health Care, SavaSenior Care, Grunstein, Forman, and Schron conspired to arrange for Omnicare to pay the nursing home chains $50 million in exchange for the right to continue providing pharmacy services to the nursing homes, which together constituted one of Omnicares largest customers. According to the governments complaint, these defendants attempted to disguise the $50 million kickback as a payment to acquire a small Mariner Health Care business unit that had only two employees and was worth far less than $50 million. After they became aware of the governments investigation, Grunstein, Forman, and Schron allegedly created backdated documents in a further attempt to hide the kickback. These allegations are detailed in a separate complaint that was unsealed today. Todays settlement resolves the allegations against Omnicare and IVAX; the United States will proceed with its case against the Mariner Health Care defendants, which was originally filed as a whistleblower action.