The Department of Justice warns that unscrupulous return preparers who prepare false tax returns will face civil and criminal enforcement. In the last year, the Department of Justices Tax Division filed dozens of civil actions throughout the United States seeking court orders to shut down dishonest return preparers who allegedly prepared false tax returns and in collaboration with U.S. Attorneys Offices prosecuted dozens of returns preparers who prepared false tax returns. Return preparer fraud is a significant drain on the U.S. Treasury, and the Justice Department is committed to working with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to bring enforcement actions against unscrupulous return preparers who prepare fraudulent tax returns, said Acting Assistant Attorney General David A. Hubbert. The Tax Division will use all available enforcement tools to hold dishonest return preparers accountable and protect the U.S. Treasury from further damage. None Falsifying Income to Claim the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC)  Dishonest return preparers fabricate income on customers returns to support a claim for the EITC, which is a credit for working people with low to moderate income and eligibility depends on a variety of factors such as income. For example, in tax year 2016, taxpayers with income between $13,900 and $18,200 were eligible for the maximum EITC. One of the ways to falsely claim the EITC is to fabricate income. For example: Falsely Padding Deductions, Such as Charitable Contributions or Business Expenses Unscrupulous returns preparers report false deductions on customers returns in order to reduce the amount of tax a customer owes, often resulting in a higher, but fraudulent, refund. For example:Excessive Claims for Business Credits, such as the Fuel Tax Credit The Fuel Tax Credit is a business credit generally limited to use of certain types of fuel for off-highway business use. A frivolous claim for the Fuel Tax Credit is typically one for a taxpayer who has not used these types of fuel for off-highway business use. For example: Falsely Inflating Refund Claims with False Claims for Education Credits Education credits are available for certain higher education related expenses. Dishonest preparers claim education credits for customers who have not attended a qualifying educational institution. For example:Return Preparer Fraud In addition to the tax scams, listed above, unscrupulous return preparers may be prosecuted or enjoined for other types of return preparer fraud. For example: None None 