A Northern California real estate investor has agreed to plead guilty for his role in conspiracies to rig bids and commit mail fraud at public real estate foreclosure auctions in Northern California, the Department of Justice announced.Felony charges were filed today in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California in Oakland against Chuokee Joseph Bo of Pleasanton, Calif.NoneNoneTodays plea agreement is the latest step in the Antitrust Divisions efforts to preserve open competition in local markets, said Bill Baer, Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Department of Justices Antitrust Division. The division remains committed to prosecuting individuals who subvert the competitive process for their own profit.The department said that the primary purpose of the conspiracies was to suppress and restrain competition and to conceal payoffs in order to obtain selected real estate offered at Alameda County public foreclosure auctions at non-competitive prices. When real estate properties are sold at these auctions, the proceeds are used to pay off the mortgage and other debt attached to the property, with remaining proceeds, if any, paid to the homeowner. According to court documents, these conspirators paid and received money that otherwise would have gone to pay off the mortgage and other holders of debt secured by the properties, and, in some cases, the defaulting homeowner."This is another example of justice being served in preserving the fairness of public real estate foreclosure auctions as well as the FBIs commitment in investigating those who take advantage of a competitive marketplace, said David J. Johnson, FBI Special Agent in Charge of the San Francisco Field Office. Criminal activity like this takes place in our communities and we continue to rely on the publics help in seeking those who cheat the system.A violation of the Sherman Act carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $1 million fine for individuals. The maximum fine for the Sherman Act charges may be increased to twice the gain derived from the crime or twice the loss suffered by the victims if either amount is greater than $1 million. A count of conspiracy to commit mail fraud carries a maximum sentence of 30 years in prison and a $1 million fine. The government can also seek to forfeit the proceeds earned from participating in the conspiracy to commit mail fraud. NoneNone**The fraud charge(s) referenced in this press release were subsequently dismissed on the governments motion.**