  An executive of Japan-based Denso  Corp. has agreed to plead guilty and to serve one year and one day in a U.S.  prison in connection with the Antitrust Divisions investigation into a  conspiracy to fix the prices of instrument panel clusters, also known as meters,  installed in cars sold in the United States and elsewhere, the Department of  Justice announced today.   A one-count felony charge was  filed on June 27, 2014, in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of  Michigan in Detroit against Satoru Horisaki, a group leader in Densos  Utsunomiya Branch Office.  According to the charge, Horisaki, a Japanese  national, participated in the conspiracy from in or about 2009 to in or about  February 2010, by agreeing upon bids and prices for, and allocating the supply  of, automotive instrument panel clusters sold to Honda of America Manufacturing  Co. Inc., in the United States and elsewhere.  In addition to the prison  sentence, Horisaki has agreed to pay a $20,000 criminal fine and to cooperate  with the departments ongoing investigation.  The plea agreement will be subject  to court approval.   This charge is the latest effort  by the Antitrust Division to hold executives accountable for engaging in  anticompetitive conspiracies that do real harm to the U.S. economy, said Brent  Snyder, Deputy Assistant Attorney General for the Antitrust Divisions criminal  enforcement program.  The conspirators undermined a competitive bidding process  by meeting to discuss and agree on price quotations.   Instrument panel clusters are the  mounted array of instruments and gauges housed in front of the driver of an  automobile.None   To date, 36 individuals,  including Horisaki, have been charged in the departments ongoing investigation  into price fixing and bid rigging in the auto parts industry.  Additionally, 27  companies have pleaded guilty or agreed to plead guilty and have agreed to pay a  total of over $2.3 billion in fines.   Horisaki is charged with price  fixing in violation of the Sherman Act, which carries a maximum sentence of 10  years in prison and a $1 million criminal fine for individuals.  The maximum  fine for an individual may be increased to twice the gain derived from the crime  or twice the loss suffered by the victims of the crime, if either of those  amounts is greater than the statutory maximum fine. None