  The Justice Department, along  with federal and state partners, today announced a $7 billion settlement with  Citigroup Inc. to resolve federal and state civil claims related to Citigroups  conduct in the packaging, securitization, marketing, sale and issuance of  residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) prior to Jan. 1, 2009.  The  resolution includes a $4 billion civil penalty  the largest penalty to date  under the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act (FIRREA).   As part of the settlement, Citigroup acknowledged it made serious  misrepresentations to the public  including the investing public  about the  mortgage loans it securitized in RMBS.  The resolution also requires Citigroup  to provide relief to underwater homeowners, distressed borrowers and affected  communities through a variety of means including financing affordable rental  housing developments for low-income families in high-cost areas.  The settlement  does not absolve Citigroup or its employees from facing any possible criminal  charges.   This  settlement is part of the ongoing efforts of President Obamas Financial Fraud  Enforcement Task Forces RMBS Working Group, which has recovered $20 billion to  date for American consumers and investors.   This historic penalty is  appropriate given the strength of the evidence of the wrongdoing committed by  Citi, said Attorney General Eric Holder.  The bank's activities contributed  mightily to the financial crisis that devastated our economy in 2008.  Taken  together, we believe the size and scope of this resolution goes beyond what  could be considered the mere cost of doing business.  Citi is not the first  financial institution to be held accountable by this Justice Department, and it  will certainly not be the last.   The settlement includes an agreed  upon statement of facts that describes how Citigroup made representations to  RMBS investors about the quality of the mortgage loans it securitized and sold  to investors.  Contrary to those representations, Citigroup securitized and sold  RMBS with underlying mortgage loans that it knew had material defects.  As the  statement of facts explains, on a number of occasions, Citigroup employees  learned that significant percentages of the mortgage loans reviewed in due  diligence had material defects.  In one instance, a Citigroup trader stated in  an internal email that he went through the Diligence Reports and think[s]  [they] should start praying . . . [he] would not be surprised if half of these  loans went down. . . Its amazing that some of these loans were closed at all.   Citigroup nevertheless securitized the loan pools containing defective loans and  sold the resulting RMBS to investors for billions of dollars.  This conduct,  along with similar conduct by other banks that bundled defective and toxic loans  into securities and misled investors who purchased those securities, contributed  to the financial crisis.   Today, we hold Citi accountable  for its contributing role in creating the financial crisis, not only by  demanding the largest civil penalty in history, but also by requiring innovative  consumer relief that will help rectify the harm caused by Citi's conduct, said  Associate Attorney General Tony West.  In addition to the principal reductions  and loan modifications we've built into previous resolutions, this consumer  relief menu includes new measures such as $200 million in typically  hard-to-obtain financing that will facilitate the construction of affordable  rental housing, bringing relief to families pushed into the rental market in the  wake of the financial crisis.   Of the $7 billion resolution,  $4.5 billion will be paid to settle federal and state civil claims by various  entities related to RMBS: Citigroup will pay $4 billion as a civil penalty to  settle the Justice Department claims under FIRREA, $208.25 million to settle  federal and state securities claims by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation  (FDIC), $102.7 million to settle claims by the state of California, $92 million  to settle claims by the state of New York, $44 million to settle claims by the  state of Illinois, $45.7  million to settle claims by the Commonwealth of  Massachusetts, and $7.35 to settle claims by the state of Delaware.   Citigroup will pay out the  remaining $2.5 billion in the form of relief to aid consumers harmed by the  unlawful conduct of Citigroup.  That relief will take various forms, including  loan modification for underwater homeowners, refinancing for distressed  borrowers, down payment and closing cost assistance to homebuyers, donations to  organizations assisting communities in redevelopment and affordable rental  housing for low-income families in high-cost areas.  An independent monitor will  be appointed to determine whether Citigroup is satisfying its obligations.  If  Citigroup fails to live up to its agreement by the end of 2018,  it must pay  liquidated damages in the amount of the shortfall to NeighborWorks America, a  non-profit organization and leader in providing affordable housing and  facilitating community development.   The U.S. Attorneys Offices for  the Eastern District of New York and the District of Colorado conducted  investigations into Citigroups practices related to the sale and issuance of  RMBS between 2006 and 2007.   The strength of our financial  markets depends on the truth of the representations that banks provide to  investors and the public every day, said U.S. Attorney John Walsh for the  District of Colorado, Co-Chair of the RMBS Working Group.  Today's $7 billion  settlement is a major step toward restoring public confidence in those markets.   Due to the tireless work by the Department of Justice, Citigroup is being forced  to take responsibility for its home mortgage securitization misconduct in the  years leading up to the financial crisis.  As important a step as this  settlement is, however, the work of the RMBS working group is far from done, we  will continue to pursue our investigations and cases vigorously because many  other banks have not yet taken responsibility for their misconduct in packaging  and selling RMBS securities.   After nearly 50 subpoenas to Citigroup, Trustees, Servicers, Due  Diligence providers and their employees, and after collecting nearly 25 million  documents relating to every residential mortgage backed security issued or  underwritten by Citigroup in 2006 and 2007, our teams found that the misconduct  in Citigroups deals devastated the nation and the worlds economies, touching  everyone, said U.S. Attorney of the Eastern District of New York Loretta  Lynch.  The investors in Citigroup RMBS included federally-insured financial  institutions, as well as a host of states, cities, public and union pension and  benefit funds, universities, religious charities, and hospitals, among others.   These are our neighbors in Colorado, New York and around the country,  hard-working people who saved and put away for retirement, only to see their  savings decimated.   This settlement resolves civil  claims against Citigroup arising out of certain securities packaged,  securitized, structured, marketed, and sold by Citigroup.  The agreement does  not release individuals from civil charges, nor does it release Citigroup or any  individuals from potential criminal prosecution. In addition, as part of the  settlement, Citigroup has pledged to fully cooperate in investigations related  to the conduct covered by the agreement.   Michael Stephens, Acting  Inspector General for the Federal Housing Finance Agency said, Citigroup  securitized billions of dollars of defective mortgages, after which investors  suffered enormous losses by purchasing RMBS from Citi not knowing about those  defects. Todays settlement is another significant step by FHFA-OIG and its law  enforcement partners to hold accountable those who committed acts of fraud and  deceit in the lead up to the financial crisis, and is a necessary step toward  reviving a sound RMBS market that is crucial to the housing industry and the  American economy.  We are proud to have worked with the Department of Justice,  the U.S. Attorneys Offices in the Eastern District of New York and the District  of Colorado. They have been great partners and we look forward to our continued  work together.   The  underlying investigation was led by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Richard K. Hayes,  Kevin Traskos, Lila Bateman, John Vagelatos, J. Chris Larson and Edward K.  Newman, with the support of agents from the Office of the Inspector General for  the Federal Housing Finance Agency, in conjunction with the Presidents  Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Forces RMBS Working Group.   The RMBS  Working Group is a federal and state law enforcement effort focused on  investigating fraud and abuse in the RMBS market that helped lead to the 2008  financial crisis.  The RMBS Working Group brings together more than 200  attorneys, investigators, analysts and staff from dozens of state and federal  agencies including the Department of Justice, 10 U.S. Attorneys Offices, the  FBI, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Department of Housing and  Urban Development (HUD), HUDs Office of Inspector General, the FHFA-OIG, the  Office of the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program,  the Federal Reserve Boards Office of Inspector General, the Recovery  Accountability and Transparency Board, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network,  and more than 10 state Attorneys General offices around the country.   The RMBS  Working Group is led by its Director Geoffrey Graber and its five co-chairs:  Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Division Stuart Delery, Assistant  Attorney General for the Criminal Division Leslie Caldwell, Director of the  SECs Division of Enforcement Andrew Ceresney, U.S. Attorney for the District of  Colorado John Walsh and New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman. NoneNone