The Department of Justice announced today that two Alabama pharmacists have been sentenced to 12 and 10 months in prison for their roles in the distribution of adulterated drugs, which were compounded at the now-defunct compounding pharmacy Advanced Specialty Pharmacy doing business as Meds IV.David Allen, 60, of McCalla, Alabama, was the former pharmacist-in-charge of Meds IV, and William Timothy Rogers, 48, of Hoover, Alabama, was the former president of Meds IV. Both men pleaded guilty in March 2016 to two misdemeanor violations of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (FDCA). Allen and Rogers were sentenced to 12 months and 10 months in prison, respectively, by U.S. District Court Judge Virginia Emerson Hopkins for the Northern District of Alabama. Judge Hopkins also sentenced both defendants to one year of supervised release following their imprisonment and a $5,000 fine.Compounding pharmacies are entrusted with protecting the publics health from any harm their drugs may impose and must comply with the law, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer, head of the Justice Departments Civil Division. These cases demonstrate that the Department of Justice will continue to work aggressively with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to protect consumers from drugs compounded under insanitary conditions.Meds IV provided intravenous nutrition to patients, without taking legally required precautions in the preparation of its product, said U.S. Attorney Joyce White Vance for the Northern District of Alabama. As a result, a number of patients developed serious infections. We are committed to prosecuting this type of practice to the fullest extent of the law provides for and protecting the safety of our citizens.Producing unsafe and contaminated drugs poses a serious threat to the U.S. public health and cannot be tolerated, said Director George Karavetsos of the FDAs Office of Criminal Investigations. The FDA remains fully committed to aggressively pursuing those who place unsuspecting American consumers at risk by distributing adulterated drugs.As alleged in the information, Meds IV compounded various drugs for human use, including an intravenous drug known as Total Parenteral Nutrition (TPN). TPN is liquid nutrition administered intravenously to patients who cannot or should not receive their nutrition through eating. The information alleged that beginning in or around February 2011, Meds IV compounded its own amino acid solution, which it then mixed with other ingredients to form TPN.NoneAccording to the charging document, the amino acid was prepared by Meds IV outside a laminar airflow workbench and was kept unrefrigerated, in a room that was not sterile, in a large pot sitting on the floor, sometimes overnight, before it was sterilized and used.NoneNoneNoneAs alleged in the information, Allen supervised all compounding at Meds IV, was specifically responsible for reviewing and approving TPN formulations and was also responsible for filling the individual prescriptions Meds IV received for patient-specific TPN products. The information alleged that Rogers was ultimately responsible for overseeing all of the day-to-day operations of Meds IV. Both defendants pleaded guilty to two misdemeanor counts, representing the two lots of amino acid which were determined to be adulterated in violation of the FDCA.The case was prosecuted by Trial Attorney Heide L. Herrmann of the Justice Departments Consumer Protection Branch and Assistant U.S. Attorney Henry Cornelius of the Northern District of Alabama. They were assisted by Associate Chief Counsel Shannon M. Singleton of the Food and Drug Division, Office of General Counsel, Department of Health and Human Services. The case was investigated by the FDAs Office of Criminal Investigations.None