  Four members of the Two Six  Nation street gang and four of their associates have been indicted for their  roles in a racketeering conspiracy spanning more than 20 years, as well as  murder and drug trafficking charges. None   Todays action reflects the most  recent in the departments continuing efforts to free communities within East  Chicago, Gary and Chicago from the scourge of gang violence and drug dealing,  said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell.    Over the years, the U.S. Attorneys Offices and the Criminal Division  have partnered to use RICO and other federal charges to disrupt and dismantle  violent gangs like the Imperial Gangsters, the Latin Kings and now the Two Six  Nation.   These rolling prosecutions of  violent gangs in this region demonstrate the departments commitment to ensure  that no gang is able to maintain a foothold in these communities.   This is our third use of the  federal RICO statute against violent street gangs operating in northwest  Indiana, said U.S. Attorney Capp.    This indictment was the result of extensive federal-local law  enforcement work on both sides of the state border.   Our investigations continue and we will not  hesitate to utilize the power of the RICO statute to remove these individuals  from the streets.   The second superseding indictment  returned by a federal grand jury on Aug. 21, 2014, and unsealed today, charges  Adron Herschel Tancil, aka Awol, 36, of East Chicago, Indiana; Jesus Valentin  Fuentes, aka Chu Chu, 39, of Gary, Indiana; Frank Perez Jr., aka Pumpkin,  33, of Verona, Pennsylvania; and Anthony Cresencio Aguilera, aka P-nut, 35, of  Portage, Indiana with RICO conspiracy and    conspiracy to engage in drug trafficking, including marijuana, cocaine,  crack cocaine, heroin and ecstasy.   Also  charged in the narcotics conspiracy are Oscar Cosme, aka Cos, 41, of East  Chicago; Ester Carrera, aka Mama D, 61, of Gary; Paul Brock, aka Big Brock,  27, of Gary; and Alma Delia Carrera, 28, of Gary.   Both the RICO and narcotics conspiracies  allege criminal conduct spanning more than 20 years, from January 1992 to the  present.   The indictment further charges  defendants Tancil, Fuentes and Cosme with the May 16, 2003, homicide of Julio  Cartagena in East Chicago.   Kiontay  Kyare Pennington has already pleaded guilty to murder in aid of racketeering for  his role in this homicide.   In addition, the indictment  charges Frank Perez with the July 13, 1999, murder of Jose Pena Jr. in Whiting,  Indiana.   The charges contained in an  indictment are merely accusations and all persons charged are presumed innocent  until and unless proven guilty in court.   This case is being investigated  by the ATF, DEA, FBI, East Chicago Police Department and Whiting Police  Department, with assistance from the Chicago Police Department, Gary Police  Department, Hammond Police Department, Highland Police Department and the Lake  County High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area task force.   Assistance was also provided by the U.S.  Attorneys Office for the Western District of Pennsylvania.    This case is being prosecuted by  Assistant U.S. Attorney David J. Nozick for the Northern District of Indiana and  Trial Attorney Andrew L. Creighton of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime  and Gang Section.