  As the April 15 tax filing deadline approaches, Attorney General Eric Holder warned U.S. tax filers to beware a rising threat of scammers seeking fraudulent refunds based on stolen identities, and vowed aggressive enforcement against the practice. Speaking in a recorded video message released on the Justice Departments website, Attorney General Holder explained that a growing pool of criminals are engaged in the activity, including gangs and drug sellers seeking quick access to cash.  The Justice Departments Tax Division, in conjunction with the Internal Revenue Service and U.S. Attorneys Offices nationwide, have prioritized the investigation and prosecution of individuals who engage in stolen identity refund fraud. In the last year alone, the Department charged more than 880 defendants involved in stolen identity refund fraud, and the IRS reports that it resolved or closed approximately 963,000 cases involving identity theft victims.  This is an increasingly urgent problem, said Attorney General Holder. Its impact can be devastating to families that are counting on legitimate tax refunds that are diverted by identity theft. And especially in recent years, the Justice Department has seen the scale, scope, and execution of these fraud schemes grow significantly.  The Attorney General urged Americans to protect themselves by reporting suspicious activity and learning more at the IRS website, the Justice Departments Tax Division website, and STOPFRAUD.GOV. Noting that anyone can be a target of these scams, Attorney General Holder shared his own recent experience with tax refund fraud after two individuals in Georgia attempted to obtain a fraudulent refund using his personal information.None  Over the last several years, stolen identity refund fraud has affected hundreds of thousands of Americans, victimizing honest citizens and draining billions of taxpayer dollars from the U.S. Treasury. In fact, the IRS reported that last year they resolved and closed approximately 963,000 cases involving identity theft victims. Criminals who perpetrate these schemes use stolen personal identifying information  such as Social Security numbers  to file false tax returns with the IRS in order to steal fraudulent tax refunds.  These scams are no longer just about white-collar criminals. They are carried out by a variety of actors  from greedy tax return preparers to identity brokers who profit from the sale of personal information  to gangs and drug rings looking for easy access to cash. And these criminal enterprises disproportionately target the most vulnerable members of society  including low-income families, the elderly, Medicaid recipients, and those who have lost loved ones  including children.  This is an increasingly urgent problem. Its impact can be devastating to families that are counting on legitimate tax refunds that are diverted by identity theft. And especially in recent years, the Justice Department has seen the scale, scope, and execution of these fraud schemes grow significantly.  Fortunately, our knowledge of these crimes  and our ability to stop them  has grown as well. Last year alone, the Justice Department charged more than 880 defendants for their involvement in stolen identity refund fraud. Over the last few years  in some instances  those convicted of these crimes have faced sentences totaling upwards of ten years in prison. These sentences match the seriousness of these crimes. And they demonstrate our steadfast commitment to investigating and prosecuting tax refund fraud that involves identity theft.  Particularly as we approach April 15th  as millions of Americans prepare and file this years tax returns  the Justice Department and its partners are stepping up our enforcement efforts. And were taking aggressive action to stop stolen identity refund fraud in its tracks whenever and wherever it occurs.  The Justice Department will use every tool at its disposal to go after these scammers. And well keep working with the IRS, the FBI, the Secret Service, the Postal Inspection Service, and other federal law enforcement agencies  as well as state and local law authorities  to combat these crimes. But we need members of the public to do their part by staying vigilant. After all, identity thieves can target anyone  something I saw firsthand last year, when two people attempted to get a fraudulent tax refund using my personal information.  So I urge all of you to help my colleagues and I raise awareness about this growing threat. Protect yourself by reporting suspicious activity and filing your taxes as early as possible. And keep yourself from becoming a target by learning more about fraud and identity theft on the IRS website  or by visiting STOPFRAUD.GOV.None