  WASHINGTON  Three individuals, including Alabama businessman Ronald Gilley, lobbyist Jarrod Massey and former Alabama state representative Terry Spicer were sentenced to prison today in Montgomery, Ala., for bribery-related offenses, announced Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and FBI Special Agent in Charge Stephen Richardson.  U.S. District Judge Myron H. Thompson of the Middle District of Alabama sentenced Gilley to 80 months in prison, Massey to 65 months in prison and Spicer to 57 months in prison. Each defendant also was sentenced to a term of supervised release following his prison term.  Gilley, 47, of Dothan, Ala., and Massey, 41, of Troy, Ala., both pleaded guilty to a wide-ranging conspiracy to bribe multiple members of the Alabama legislature, as well as individual instances of federal program bribery involving legislators. According to court documents and previous testimony, Gilley owned a controlling interest in the Country Crossing real estate, entertainment and gambling development in Houston County, Ala. Country Crossing sought to offer electronic bingo gambling machines to the public. Massey owned a lobbying business, Mantra Governmental, and Gilley was one of Masseys largest clients.  During the 2009 and 2010 Alabama legislative session, Gilley and Massey promoted the passage of pro-gambling legislation that would have been favorable to operating electronic bingo facilities. Specifically, Gilley and Massey corruptly gave, offered and agreed to give money and other things of value to Alabama state legislators with the intent to influence and reward them in connection with pro-gambling legislation. Gilley also pleaded guilty to money laundering for attempting to launder $200,000 in bribe payments to a state senator in order to disguise the illicit purpose of the money. Gilley and Massey both assisted in the governments investigation, and the government recommended that each receive a reduction in his sentence as a result.None