  WASHINGTON  Attorney General Eric Holder commemorated National Missing Childrens Day in an awards ceremony recognizing the exemplary efforts of law enforcement and citizens nationwide in recovering missing children and combating child exploitation. Held at the Department of Justices Great Hall, the event also honored missing children and their families, child advocates and others who assist in protecting children.  The extraordinary efforts of the men and women we recognize today have awakened family after family from the nightmare of having a missing child, and, when there can be no solace, helped them to recover from unthinkable loss, said Attorney General Holder. There is no more important priority that we, as stewards of our nations justice system and protectors of our communities, have than bringing our kids home.  The protection of children is a personal priority of Attorney General Eric Holder. Today he announced a grant award of more than $30 million for the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children. And on March 31, the department announced the availability of more than $5 million to support the Attorney Generals initiative on children exposed to violence. These funds will sponsor planning, outreach, research and best practices for reducing childrens exposure to violence. Additionally, the department supports the ongoing work of the Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force Programs, a national network of 61 coordinated task forces addressing online child exploitation, and the AMBER Alert Program, which has assisted in the recovery of 502 abducted children.None  In addition to the remarks by the Attorney General, the ceremony included remarks by Laurie O. Robinson, Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Justice Programs (OJP), followed by presentations of awards in the following categories:NoneNoneNoneNoneNone  In 1983, President Ronald W. Reagan proclaimed May 25 as National Missing Childrens Day in memory of Etan Patz, a 6-year-old boy who disappeared from a New York City street corner on that day in 1979. Missing Childrens Day honors his memory and the memory of children who are still missing.