 None   According to charges filed today in U.S. District Court in New York City, Brian Scott Zwerner, a resident of Atlanta, engaged in a conspiracy to falsify bank records related to the marketing profits for a type of contract, known as an investment agreement, and other municipal finance contracts, including derivative contracts.   Public entities throughout the United States, such as state, county and local governments and agencies, invested the proceeds of bonds issued in these contracts.   According to the plea agreement, Zwerner has agreed to cooperate with the departments ongoing investigation.     Todays guilty plea demonstrates the Antitrust Divisions commitment to vigorously pursue and prosecute crimes in the financial services industry that harm competition, said Christine Varney, Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Department of Justices Antitrust Division.   According to the court document, the Charlotte, N.C.-based bank that employed Zwerner was a provider of investment agreements and other municipal finance contracts to public entities.   Public entities seek to invest money from a variety of sources, primarily the proceeds of municipal bonds that they issued, to raise money for, among other things, public projects.   Public entities typically hire a broker to conduct a competitive bidding process for the award of the investment agreements.   Competitive bidding for these agreements is the subject of regulations issued by the Department of the Treasury and is related to the tax-exempt status of the bonds    None   The false bank records conspiracy for which Zwerner is charged carries a maximum penalty of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine.   The maximum fine for this offense may be increased to twice the gain derived from the crime or twice the loss suffered by the victims of the crime, if either of those amounts is greater than the statutory maximum fine.   This is the ninth guilty plea to arise from an ongoing investigation into the municipal bonds industry, which is being conducted by the Antitrust Divisions New York and Cleveland Field Offices, the FBI and Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation.   The department is coordinating its investigation with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.   Three former employees of CDR have pleaded guilty to bid-rigging and fraud conspiracies in relation to the ongoing investigation.   Five other individuals have pleaded guilty to charges related to the ongoing investigation.   In October 2009, CDR, two of its employees and one former employee were charged for participating in bid-rigging and fraud conspiracies and related crimes.   The CDR trial is scheduled to begin on Jan. 9, 2012.   In addition, six other former executives at financial service companies or financial institutions have been indicted as a result of this investigation and are awaiting trial.    None None     