The last four men in a six-defendant conspiracy were sentenced yesterday for their role in a child exploitation enterprise, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Kenneth A. Blanco of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and Acting U.S. Attorney Daniel L. Lemisch of the Eastern District of Michigan.Justin Fuller, 37, of Modesto, California, was sentenced to 35 years. On April 13, a jury found Fuller guilty of one count of engaging in a child exploitation enterprise; one count of conspiracy to produce child pornography; five counts of production of child pornography; one count of conspiracy to receive child pornography; one count of conspiracy to access with intent to view child pornography; and five counts of enticement of a minor to engage in illegal sexual activity. According to trial evidence, between Nov. 16, 2013 and March 10, 2016, Fuller and his five co-conspirators located in different states worked together to lure juvenile girls to a video chat website in order to get them to engage in sexually explicit conduct. The group members predominantly targeted prepubescent girls and would, unbeknownst to the girls, record the lured young girls performing the sexually explicit conduct. The group was active for approximately two years and communicated with each other through base chatrooms that were password-protected. In the base chat rooms, Fuller and co-conspirators strategized how to convince minor females to produce child pornography, including pretending to be teenage boys or girls to help convince the minor females to engage in sexual activity.Three other co-conspirators were also sentenced today. Virgil Napier, 54, of Waterford, Michigan, pleaded guilty on June 21, 2016, and was sentenced to 20 years. John Garrison, 52, of Glenarm, Illinois, pleaded guilty on July 11, 2016, and was sentenced to 35 years. Thomas Dougherty, 54, of Vallejo, California, pleaded guilty on February 24, and was sentenced to 26 years.Additionally, on Sept. 23, 2016, Dantly Nicart, 39, a citizen of the Philippines residing in Las Vegas, pleaded guilty, and, on March 2, was sentenced to 20 years imprisonment followed by five years of supervised release and was ordered to pay $150,000 in restitution. On June 21, 2016, Brandon Henneberg, 31, of Diller, Nebraska, pleaded guilty in the District of Nebraska, and, on Sept. 14, 2016, he was sentenced to 35 years imprisonment, followed by a lifetime term of supervised release and order to pay $60,000 in restitution.NoneNone