None None   Todays settlement will lead to the installation of innovative pollution controls on the largest sources of emissions at the Whiting refinery, including extensive new controls on the refinerys flaring devices. Flaring devices are used to burn off waste gases. The more waste gases sent to a flare, and the less efficient the flare is when burning those gases, the more pollution that will occur. Under the settlement, BP will install new equipment that will limit the amount of waste gas sent to flaring devices in the first place, as well as implement innovative, cutting-edge controls to ensure proper combustion efficiency for any gases that are burned in a flaring device. These requirements, similar to those included in a recent settlement with Marathon Petroleum Corp., are part of EPAs national effort to reduce emissions from flares at refineries, petrochemical and chemical plants. None   BP will perform a supplemental environmental project in which they will install, operate and maintain a $2 million fence line emission monitoring system at the Whiting refinery and will make the data collected available to the public by posting the information on a publicly-accessible website. Fenceline monitors will continuously monitor benzene, toluene, pentane, hexane, sulfur dioxide, hydrogen sulfide and all compounds containing reduced sulfur.   In this case, BP North America has not lived up to all of its obligations under an earlier settlement agreement and has committed new violations of the Clean Air Act at its Whiting refinery in Indiana, said Ignacia S. Moreno, Assistant Attorney General for the Environment and Natural Resources Division of the Department of Justice. This settlement secures a significant penalty, requires state-of-the-art controls, and is a fair and just resolution that will address BPs violations. We will continue to hold BP accountable and ensure that it complies with the nations environmental laws.None   This settlement was the product of both federal and state environmental enforcement entities and was enhanced by having environmental advocacy groups involved in the negotiations, including Save the Dunes, the Hoosier Chapter of the Sierra Club, the Hoosier Environmental Council, the Natural Resources Defense Council and the Environmental Law and Policy Center. Respect for our nations laws including the Clean Air Act is at the heart of this effort, said Indiana Attorney General Greg Zoeller, whose office represented the state of Indiana and Indiana Department of Environmental Management in settlement negotiations. None None