NoneNoneNoneNoneNone       The ability to assemble and protest is a cherished right in the United States, and its troubling that a U.S. citizen from Leesburg is accused of working with the Syrian government to identify and intimidate those who exercise that right, said U.S. Attorney MacBride.  Spying for another country is a serious threat to our national security, especially when it threatens the ability of U.S. citizens to engage in political speech within our own borders.       Our national security is threatened when foreign governments use unregistered agents in an attempt to influence and intimidate those who live here lawfully, said FBI Assistant Director in Charge McJunkin.Their alleged acts desecrate the values cherished in our fair and open society. The FBI will be counted on to detect and deter unregistered agents who attempt clandestine activities on behalf of a foreign political power and work to bring them swiftly to justice.  None None     The indictment states that in late June 2011, the Syrian government paid for Soueid to travel to Syria, where he met with intelligence officials and spoke with President Bashar al-Assad in private.  None None     On Aug. 3, 2011, FBI agents interviewed Soueid, and the indictment accuses him of lying to the agents when he denied that he had collected information on U.S. persons and transmitted that information to the government of Syria.  In addition, Soueid allegedly made further false statements when he denied to FBI agents that he had directed someone to audio or videotape a conversation, meeting, rally or protest, or that he was aware of any individual taking photographs or videotaping people.  He also allegedly made false statements when he denied that he had ever been an agent of the Syrian government or a foreign intelligence officer.  None     In addition, the indictment alleges that, when purchasing a Beretta pistol on July 11, 2011, Soueid listed a false current residence address on a firearms purchase application and in records that were kept by a licensed firearms dealer.      This investigation is being conducted by the FBIs Washington Field Office with assistance from the Loudon County, Va., Sheriffs Office.  The prosecution is being handled by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Dennis Fitzpatrick and Neil Hammerstrom of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of Virginia and Trial Attorney Brandon L. Van Grack of the Counterespionage Section of the Justice Departments National Security Division.     The public is reminded that an indictment contains mere allegations and that a defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.