None  According to the allegations in the criminal complaints unsealed today in Manhattan federal court:  JPMorgans CIO, is a component of the banks Corporate/Private Equity line of business, which, according to the bank, exists to manage the banks excess deposits  approximately $350 billion in 2012. Since approximately 2007, the CIOs investments have included a so-called Synthetic Credit Portfolio (SCP), which consists of indices and tranches of indices of credit default swaps (CDS). A credit default swap is essentially an insurance contract on an underlying credit risk, such as corporate bonds. CDS indices are collections of CDSs that are traded as one unit, while CDS tranches are portions of those indices, usually sliced up by riskiness.  Under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and according to JPMorgan policy, CDS traders were required to value the securities in their portfolios on a daily basis. Those values, or marks, became part of the banks daily books and records. Because CDS indices and tranches are not traded over an exchange, traders are required to look to various data points in order to value their securities, such as actual transaction prices, price quotations from market makers, and values provided by independent services (such as Totem and MarkIT). JPMorgans accounting policy, which used the same methodology employed by the independent services, provided that the starting point for the valuation of a derivatives portfolio is mid-market, meaning the mid-point between the price at which market-makers were willing to buy or sell a security. Through about January 2012, CIO traders generally marked the securities in the SCP approximately to this mid-point, which they sometimes referred to as the crude mid.  The SCP was extremely profitable for JPMorgan  it produced approximately $2 billion in gross revenues since its inception  but in the first quarter of 2012, the SCP began to sustain consistent and considerable losses. From at least March 2012, Martin-Artajo and Grout conspired to artificially manipulate the SCP marks to disguise those losses. They did so, among other reasons, to avoid losing control of the SCP to other traders at JPMorgan.  Although Martin-Artajo pressured his traders, including Grout, to defend the positions in early 2012 by executing trades at favorable prices, the SCP lost approximately $130 million in January 2012 and approximately $88 million in February 2012. In March 2012, when the market moved even more aggressively against the CIOs positions, Martin-Artajo specifically instructed Grout and the head SCP trader, Bruno Iksil (who has entered a non-prosecution agreement), not to report losses in the SCP unless they were tied to some identifiable market event, such as a bankruptcy filing by a company whose bonds were in the CDS index. Martin-Artajo explained that New York  meaning, among others, JPMorgans Chief Investment Officer  did not want to see losses attributable to market volatility.  By mid-March 2012, Grout was explicitly and admittedly not marking at mids. He maintained a spreadsheet that kept track of the difference between the price that Grout recorded in JPMorgans books and records, on the one hand, and the crude mids, on the other. By March 15, 2012, according to Grouts spreadsheet, the difference had grown to approximately $292 million. In a recorded on-line chat the same day, Grout explained that he was trying to keep the marks for most of the SCPs positions relatively realistic, with the marks for one particular security put aside. That is, Grout mispriced that one particular security, of which the SCP held billions of dollars worth, by the full $292 million. The following day, Iksil told Martin-Artajo that the difference had grown to $300 million, and I reckon we get to 400 [million] difference very soon. In a separate conversation, Iksil remarked to Grout that I dont know where he [Martin-Artajo] wants to stop, but its getting idiotic.  In the days that followed, Grout at times ignored Iksils instructions on how to mark the positions, and instead, followed Martin-Artajos mandate to continue to hide the losses. By March 20, 2012, Iksil insisted that Grout show a significant loss: $40 million for the day. In a recorded call, Martin-Aartajo excoriated Iksil, finally emphasizing, I didnt want to show the P&L [the profit and loss]. Throughout the remainder of March 2012, while Iksil continued to try to insist that Martin-Artajo acknowledge the reality of the losses, Grout, at Martin-Artajos instructions, continued to hide them. As of March 30, 2012  the last day of the first quarter of 2012  Grout continued to fraudulently understate the SCPs losses. These incorrect figures in the SCP were not only integrated into JPMorgans books and records, but also  as Martin-Artajo and Grout were well aware  into the banks quarterly financial filing for the first quarter of 2012 with the SEC.  During the course of the mis-marking scheme carried out by Martin-Artajo and Grout, the CIOs Valuation Control Group (VCG) was supposed to serve as an independent check on the valuations assigned by traders to the securities that the traders were marking at month-end. The VCG, however, was effectively only staffed by one person and did not perform any independent review of the valuations. Instead, the VCG tolerated valuations outside of the bid-offer spread as presented by Martin-Artajo and other CIO traders.  In Aug. 2012, after Martin-Artajo and Grout were stripped of their responsibilities over the SCP and their scheme was discovered, JPMorgan restated its first quarter 2012 earnings, and recognized an additional loss of $660 million in net revenue attributable to the mis-marking of the SCP. JPMorgan announced that it was restating its earnings because it had lost confidence in the integrity of the marks submitted by Grout, at Martin-Artajos direction.None  The case was investigated by the FBI. The SEC and the Justice Departments Office of International Affairs were also involved.  This case is being handled by the Offices Securities and Commodities Fraud Task Force. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Eugene Ingoglia and Matthew L. Schwartz are in charge of the prosecutions.  The charges contained in the complaints are merely accusations, and the defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.