18 Year Old Attempted to Travel Overseas to Join ISILA Brownsburg, Indiana, man was arrested today for attempting to provide material support to the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), a designated foreign terrorist organization.The arrest was announced by Assistant Attorney General for National Security John P. Carlin, U.S. Attorney Josh J. Minkler of the Southern District of Indiana and Special Agent in Charge W. Jay Abbott of the FBIs Indiana Division.Akram Musleh, 18, was arrested by FBI agents while attempting to board a bus from Indianapolis to New York, where he was to fly to and transit through Morocco on his way to ISIL-controlled territory. The criminal complaint alleges that he planned to provide personnel (himself) to ISIL.According to the complaint, Musleh attempted to travel overseas to join ISIL and to provide material support to the designated terrorist organization, said Assistant Attorney General Carlin. The National Security Divisions highest priority is countering terrorist threats, and we will continue to work to stem the flow of foreign fighters abroad and bring to justice those who attempt to provide material support to designated foreign terrorist organizations.The radicalization of American citizens by terrorist organizations like ISIL is a threat to our safety here and abroad, said U.S. Attorney Minkler. I am committed to using the full authority of the United States Attorneys Office to identify, investigate and prosecute those that provide material support to terrorists. I would like to thank the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Brownsburg Police Department for working with us during this investigation. We will continue to work closely with our law enforcement partners but as in this case, we rely heavily on the publics assistance to help make our community safe.Terrorism is the FBIs number one priority and we work closely with our law enforcement partners to ensure the safety of our community, saidSpecial Agent in Charge Abbott. This case demonstrates the value of law enforcement collaboration and community engagement.A criminal complaint is only a charge and not evidence of guilt. All defendants are presumed innocent until proven otherwise in federal court. If convicted, Musleh faces a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison, a lifetime of supervised release and a $250,000 fine.This prosecution is being handled by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Bradley Shepard and Doris Pryor of the Southern District of Indiana and Trial Attorneys Paul Casey and Kiersten Korczynski of the National Security Divisions Counterterrorism Section.