Corporation Pleads Guilty to Criminal Charges and SentencedThe Department of Justice announced today that three importers and their owners  Ameri-Source International Inc., Ameri-Source Specialty Products Inc., Ameri-Source Holdings Inc., Ajay Goel and Thomas Diener  and a related importer, SMC Machining LLC, incorporated at Goels direction and formerly owned by his wife, have agreed to pay $3million to resolve a lawsuit brought by the United States under the False Claims Act. The lawsuit alleged that the defendants had engaged in a scheme to evade customs duties on imports of small-diameter graphite electrodes from the Peoples Republic of China (PRC). Small-diameter graphite electrodes are columns of synthetic graphite with diameters of around 16inches or less that are used as fuel in electric arc and ladle furnaces, such as those used in steel manufacturing. The companies are all based in Pennsylvania.The nations customs laws are designed to protect domestic manufacturers from foreign products that enter the country at below-market prices due to unfair practices abroad, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer, head of the Justice Departments Civil Division. This settlement shows that the Department of Justice is committed to pursuing claims against anyone involved in a scheme to seek an unfair advantage in U.S. markets by evading duties on imported goods, including the individuals who run the companies and knowingly participate in such schemes.The Department of Commerce assesses and the U.S. Department of Homeland Securitys Customs and Border Protection (CBP) collects duties to protect U.S. manufacturers from unfair competition abroad by leveling the playing field for domestic products. The particular duties at issue in this case are antidumping duties, which protect domestic manufacturers against foreign companies dumping products on U.S. markets at prices below cost. Imports of PRC-manufactured small-diameter graphite electrodes have been subject to antidumping duties since Aug. 21, 2008.The settlement announced today resolves claims that Ameri-Source International Inc. evaded antidumping duties on 15 shipments of small-diameter graphite electrodes from the PRC from December 2009 to March 2012. The United States contended that Ameri-Source International misclassified the size of the electrodes to avoid paying the duties. There are no antidumping duties on larger diameter graphite electrodes. The United States also alleged that Goel, Diener and the other companies caused and conspired in the misrepresentation to evade duties. Ameri-Source International also waived indictment and pleaded guilty today to two counts of smuggling goods into the United States. In U.S. District Court in the Western District of Pennsylvania, Ameri-Source International admitted that on April 27, 2011 and June 9, 2011, the company falsely declared imported cargo from the PRC as being graphite rods greater than 16 inches in diameter. Chief Judge Joy Flowers Conti immediately sentenced the corporation to pay a $250,000 criminal fine within 10 days and applied the payment of the $3 million to the loss of antidumping duties of $2,137,420.00.We are committed to protecting U.S. jobs and industries from those who seek an unfair advantage in the U.S. marketplace, said U.S. Attorney David J. Hickton for the Western District of Pennsylvania. This offices aggressive criminal and civil enforcement efforts to combat and prosecute the evasive practices of both the corporations and individuals who perpetrated this scheme demonstrate our resolve to ensure a level playing field for all.Antidumping duties level the playing field for U.S. manufacturers, said CBP Commissioner R. Gil Kerlikowske. This is a prime example of how U.S. Customs and Border Protection partners with the Department of Justice, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations (ICE HSI) and the U.S. Department of Commerce to enforce antidumping duty laws.This settlement underscores one of HSIs primary efforts, which is to ensure a level playing field for companies engaged in legitimate trade and commerce with the United States, said Special Agent in Charge John Kelleghan of Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) Philadelphia. HSI special agents will continue to protect the revenue of the United States and aggressively investigate individuals and companies who attempt to operate outside our laws and regulations.The Department of Commerce Office of Inspector General is dedicated to supporting bureaus such as the International Trade Administration in protecting the U.S. economy from the type of criminal activity disclosed in this case, said Special Agent in Charge Duane E. Townsend of the U.S. Department of Commerce Office of Inspector General. We greatly appreciate the cooperation and efforts of HSI and the U.S. Attorneys Office that resulted in this agreement.NoneThe case was handled by the Civil Divisions Commercial Litigation Branch, the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Western District of Pennsylvania, CBP, ICE HSI and the Department of Commerces International Trade Administration and Office of Inspector General.None