Final 10 of 36 Convicted and SentencedTen Aryan Brotherhood of Texas (ABT) gang members and associates were sentenced to prison this week for their roles in the violent ABT enterprise, announced Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney Kenneth Magidson of the Southern District of Texas.Today, Michael Richard Lamphere, 56, of Houston, Texas, Glen Ray Millican Jr., 41, of Houston, Texas, and Rebecca Johnson Cropp, 46, of Dallas, Texas, were sentenced to serve respective terms of 240 months, 120 months and 36 months in federal prison by U.S. District Judge Sim Lake in the Southern District of Texas. Earlier this week, William David Maynard, 44, of Houston, Texas, Sammy Keith Shipman, 32, of Houston, Texas, Chad Ray Folmsbee, 32, of Houston, Texas, David Orlando Roberts, 36, of Houston, Texas, Justin Christopher Northrup, 29, of Houston, Texas, Tammy Melissa Wall, 45, of Otto, North Carolina, and Benjamin Troy Johnson, 43, of Corpus Christi, Texas, were each sentenced to serve respective terms of 262 months, 188 months, 140 months, 135 months, 130 months, 72 months and 36 months in federal prison.NoneThe ABT was established in the early 1980s within the Texas prison system. The gang modeled itself after and adopted many of the precepts and writings of the Aryan Brotherhood, a California-based prison gang that was formed in the California prison system during the 1960s. Previously, the ABT was primarily concerned with the protection of white inmates and white supremacy/separatism, but over time, the ABT has expanded its criminal enterprise to include illegal activities for profit, according to court records.In order to be considered for ABT membership, a person must be sponsored by another gang member. Once sponsored, a prospective member must serve an unspecified term, during which he is referred to as a prospect, while his conduct is observed by the members of the ABT.Court documents allege that the ABT enforced its rules and promoted discipline among its members, prospects and associates through murder, attempted murder, arson, assault, robbery and threats against those who violated the rules or posed a threat to the enterprise. Members, and oftentimes associates, were required to follow the orders of higher-ranking members, often referred to as direct orders.The defendants sentenced this week represent the final 10 of 36 defendants convicted of conducting racketeering activity through the ABT criminal enterprise, among other charges.This Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force case was investigated by a multi-agency task force consisting of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; Drug Enforcement Administration; FBI; U.S. Marshals Service; Federal Bureau of Prisons; U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Homeland Security Investigations; Texas Rangers; Texas Department of Public Safety; Montgomery County, Texas, Sheriffs Office; Houston Police Department-Gang Division; Texas Department of Criminal Justice  Office of Inspector General; Harris County, Texas, Sheriffs Office; Atascosa County, Texas, Sheriffs Office; Orange County, Texas, Sheriffs Office; Waller County, Texas, Sheriffs Office; Alvin, Texas, Police Department; Carrollton, Texas, Police Department; Mesquite, Texas, Police Department; Montgomery County District Attorneys Office; and the Atascosa County District Attorneys Office.The case was prosecuted by Trial Attorney David Karpel of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Ed Gallagher and Tim Braley of the Southern District of Texas.