  Louisiana Generating, an electric generating company owned by NRG Energy Inc., has agreed to a settlement at its Big Cajun II coal-fired power plant in New Roads, La., which will result in the elimination of over 27,300 tons of harmful emissions per year, the Department of Justice and U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced today. The settlement, lodged in federal court today in Baton Rouge, will require Louisiana Generating to spend approximately $250 million to reduce air pollution and also requires the company to pay a civil fine of $3.5 million and spend $10.5 million on environmental mitigation projects. None   The state of Louisiana joined in the settlement and will receive $1.75 million, one-half of the $3.5 million civil penalty.   The Clean Air Act, federal and Louisiana regulations require owners and operators of power plants to obtain permits and install best available control technology after major modifications are made to power plants. The governments alleged that Louisiana Generating violated federal and state law by continuing to operate Big Cajun II Units 1 and 2 without getting the required permits and installing modern air pollution controls after the largest boiler modifications in the history of the plant were made at the facility.   The Big Cajun II Power Plant is the largest source of illegal air pollution in Louisiana. This settlement will secure substantial reductions in harmful emissions from the plant which will have a beneficial impact on air quality for residents of Louisiana and downwind states, including low-income communities who have been historically overburdened with pollution, said Ignacia S. Moreno, Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division. Louisiana Generating will install modern air pollution controls that will significantly reduce harmful emissions and also will perform environmental projects that will conserve energy.   This settlement represents a big win for the people of Louisiana and surrounding states, showing that we can both protect public health and the environment without taking away the electricity and jobs essential to our community, said Donald J. Cazayoux, Jr., the U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of Louisiana.     This settlement continues our important enforcement initiative to reduce harmful illegal air pollution from the largest sources of emissions, said Cynthia Giles, assistant administrator for EPAs Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance. Pollution from these sources can cause severe respiratory and cardiovascular impacts, and EPA is committed to making sure that they all comply with the law.  Louisiana continues to see the positive effects from emission reductions from facilities across the state, said Peggy Hatch, Secretary of the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality. The reduction in air emissions from this settlement will be beneficial to our citizens. The health of Louisianas environment is the best it has been since the creation of the Clean Air and Clean Water Acts. Reductions such as these will only continue that trend. Well continue to work with our local, state and federal partners to protect human health and the environment.   Louisiana Generating will spend $10.5 million on environmental mitigation projects that will further reduce emissions and benefit communities adversely affected by pollution from the Big Cajun II plant as follows: None None None None None None None None