  Joshua  Vandyk, a U.S. citizen, and Eric St-Cyr and Patrick Poulin, Canadian citizens,  have each pleaded guilty to conspiring to launder monetary instruments, the  Justice Department and Internal Revenue Service (IRS) announced today. None   According to  the plea agreements and statements of facts, Vandyk, St-Cyr and Poulin conspired  to conceal and disguise the nature, location, source, ownership and control of  property believed to be the proceeds of bank fraud, specifically $2 million.   Vandyk, St-Cyr and Poulin assisted undercover law enforcement agents posing as  U.S. clients in laundering purported criminal proceeds through an offshore  structure designed to conceal the true identity of the proceeds owners.  Vandyk  and St-Cyr invested the laundered funds on the clients behalf and represented  that the funds would not be reported to the U.S. government.   This investigation highlights  the Justice Departments commitment to worldwide enforcement of federal laws  designed to ensure that U.S. taxpayers fully disclose and report all foreign  income and assets, said Deputy Assistant Attorney General Ronald A. Cimino of  the Justice Department's Tax Division.   The Tax Division is committed to using  every tool available to hold these wrongdoers accountable .   These three defendants played a  shell game by creating offshore entities designed to help their U.S. clients  evade taxes and other legal requirements, and they used that same shell game to  launder purported criminal proceeds, said U.S. Attorney Dana J. Boente for the  Eastern District of Virginia.  We are committed to working with our law  enforcement partners to penetrate and combat these schemes wherever they occur.   Individuals  who assist others in laundering criminal proceeds will be held accountable for  their own criminal actions, said IRS-Criminal Investigation Chief Richard  Weber.  The defendants in this investigation had a blatant disrespect for the  laws and laundered purported criminal proceeds through offshore structures to  conceal the identity of the proceeds owners. IRS Criminal Investigation has  ramped up its presence in the international arena and will aggressively pursue  those who commit financial crimes. None   According to  court documents, Poulin established an offshore corporation called Zero Exposure  Inc. for the undercover agents posing as U.S. clients and served as a nominal  board member in lieu of the clients.  Poulin transferred approximately $200,000  that Poulin, St-Cyr and Vandyk believed to be the proceeds of bank fraud from  the offshore corporation to the Cayman Islands, where Vandyk and St-Cyr invested  those funds outside of the United States in the name of the offshore  corporation.  The investment firm represented that it would neither disclose the  investments or any investment gains to the U.S. government, nor would it provide  monthly statements or other investment statements to the clients.  Clients were  able to monitor their investments online through the use of anonymous, numeric  passcodes.  Upon request from the U.S. client, Vandyk and St-Cyr liquidated  investments and transfer money, through Poulin, back to the United States.   According to Vandyk and St-Cyr, the investment firm would charge clients higher  fees to launder criminal proceeds than to assist them in tax evasion.   The case was  investigated by special agents of the IRS-Criminal Investigation.  Trial  Attorneys Todd Ellinwood and Caryn Finley of the departments Tax Division and  Assistant U.S. Attorney Kosta Stojilkovic of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the  Eastern District of Virginia are prosecuting the case.  The Justice Department  and the IRS would like to thank the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, the Royal  Cayman Islands Police Service and the Royal Turks and Caicos Islands Police  Force for their assistance in this investigation.NoneNone