  WASHINGTON  The Justice Department announced today a simultaneous lawsuit and settlement with the state of Texas concerning the care given to residents of the states 13 facilities for persons with developmental disabilities. Along with the settlement agreement, the Department will file a complaint initiating a lawsuit against the state in federal court. An independent monitor will be appointed to oversee the states compliance with the settlement agreement and the court will retain ultimate jurisdiction.  The facilities are state-owned and operated residential facilities that serve nearly 5,000 persons with developmental disabilities. The agreement, which will be subject to the approval of the U.S. District Court in Austin, Texas, addresses concerns about conditions and practices at the facilities, which led the Department to investigate potential violations of the Civil Rights of Institutionalized Persons Act (CRIPA).  "The Justice Department is committed to protecting the fundamental rights of all our citizens. This agreement reflects that principle by protecting the civil rights of some of Texass most vulnerable residents," said Attorney General Eric Holder.None  Under the terms of the agreement, Texas will fund and work with an independent monitor, who will oversee the states compliance with the agreement. The agreement contemplates that the state will reach compliance within five years, but it will continue until compliance is achieved.  "We commend the state for working with the Department to ensure that persons living in these institutions receive the protection, care, and services that they need and deserve, and that they have expanded opportunities to live their lives in more community-integrated settings, consistent with federal law," said Loretta King, Acting Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights.  The remedial agreement represents a negotiated resolution of the Justice Departments investigation that would not have been possible without the cooperation and commitment of the Governor of Texas, Rick Perry, the Texas Department of Aging and Disability Services, the Texas Attorney Generals Office and the Texas Legislature.None  CRIPA authorizes the Attorney General to investigate conditions in certain institutions owned or operated by, or on behalf of, state or local governments. These institutions include nursing homes, residential facilities serving persons with developmental disabilities, mental health facilities, jails, prisons, and juvenile correction facilities. CRIPAs focus is on systemic deficiencies rather than individual, isolated problems.None