A 32-year-old Vladivostok, Russia, man was sentenced today to 27 years in prison for his computer hacking crimes that caused more than $169 million in damage to small businesses and financial institutions, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Kenneth A. Blanco of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney Annette L. Hayes of the Western District of Washington.Roman Valeryevich Seleznev, aka Track2, was convicted in August 2016, of 38 counts related to his scheme to hack into point-of-sale computers to steal credit card numbers and sell them on dark market websites.U.S. District Judge Richard A. Jones of the Western District of Washington imposed the sentence.This investigation, conviction and sentence demonstrates that the United States will bring the full force of the American justice system upon cybercriminals like Seleznev who victimize U.S. citizens and companies from afar, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Blanco.And we will not tolerate the existence of safe havens for these crimes  we will identify cybercriminals from the dark corners of the Internet and bring them to justice.Today is a bad day for hackers around the world, said U.S. Attorney Annette L. Hayes.The notion that the Internet is a Wild West where anything goes is a thing of the past.As Mr. Seleznev has now learned, and others should take note  we are working closely with our law enforcement partners around the world to find, apprehend, and bring to justice those who use the internet to steal and destroy our peace of mind.Whether the victims are multi-national banks or small pizza joints, we are all victims when our day-to-day transactions result in millions of dollars ending up in the wrong hands.NoneSeleznev was taken into custody in July 2014 in the Maldives, and the laptop in his custody at that time contained more than 1.7 million stolen credit card numbers, including some from businesses in Western Washington.The laptop also contained additional evidence linking Seleznev to the servers, email accounts and financial transactions involved in the scheme.Evidence presented at trial showed that Seleznev earned tens of millions of dollars from his criminal activity.Seleznev was convicted on Aug. 25, 2016, of 10 counts of wire fraud, eight counts of intentional damage to a protected computer, nine counts of obtaining information from a protected computer, nine counts of possession of 15 or more unauthorized access devices and two counts of aggravated identity theft.Mr. Seleznevs criminal enterprise was both sophisticated and expansive, with transnational implications.This investigation exemplifies the ability of the U.S. Secret Service and our law enforcement partners to hold accountable those who perpetrate such crimes, said Special Agent in Charge Robert L. Kierstead of the U.S. Secret Service.The ultimate success of this case is the result of an extraordinary collaborative effort by the Secret Service, the U.S. Attorneys Office of the Western District of Washington, the Criminal Divisions Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section and the Seattle Police Department.Crime has no borders, said Seattle Police Chief Kathleen OToole.This individual is responsible for defrauding victims out of millions of dollars in Seattle alone, and we are proud to work with our federal partners to bring him to justice.Seleznev is also charged in a separate indictment in the District of Nevada with participating in a racketeer influenced corrupt organization (RICO) and conspiracy to engage in a racketeer influenced corrupt organization, as well as two counts of possession of 15 or more counterfeit and unauthorized access devices.Additionally, Seleznev is charged in the Northern District of Georgia with conspiracy to commit bank fraud, one count of bank fraud and four counts of wire fraud.An indictment is merely an allegation, and the defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.The U.S. Secret Service Electronic Crimes Task Force investigated the case.Assistant U.S. Attorneys Norman M. Barbosa and Seth Wilkinson of the Western District of Washington and Trial Attorneys Harold Chun and Ethan Arenson of the Criminal Divisions Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section (CCIPS) prosecuted the case.The CCIPS Cyber Crime Lab, and its Director, Ovie Carroll, provided substantial support for the prosecution.The Office of International Affairs and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Guam also provided assistance in this case.