A former vice president of finance for Bankrate Inc., a publicly traded financial services and marketing company headquartered in New York City, was charged in an indictment filed yesterday for his alleged participation in a complex accounting and securities fraud scheme.Acting Assistant Attorney General Kenneth A. Blanco of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, Acting U.S. Attorney Benjamin Greenberg of the Southern District of Florida and Chief Postal Inspector Guy J. Cottrell of the U.S. Postal Inspection Service (USPIS) made the announcement today.Hyunjin Lerner, 48, of Martin County, Florida, was charged in an indictment filed in the Southern District of Florida with one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud, falsify a public companys books, records and accounts and make false statements to a public companys accountants; three counts of wire fraud; one count of securities fraud; four counts of false entries in a public companys books, records and accounts; and three counts of false statements to a public companys accountants. Lerner, who previously worked at Bankrates offices in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, made his initial appearance earlier today before U.S. Magistrate Judge John J. OSullivan of the Southern District of Florida and was released on bond.The indictment alleges that between 2011 and 2014, Lerner and his co-conspirators carried out a complex scheme to manipulate Bankrates financial statements and artificially inflate Bankrates earnings. According to the indictment, Lerner and his co-conspirators allegedly engaged in cookie jar or cushion accounting, meaning unsupported expense accruals were left on Bankrates books and then selectively reversed in later quarters to meet earnings goals. In addition, Lerner and his co-conspirators allegedly: misrepresented certain company expenses as deal costs in order to artificially inflate publicly reported adjusted earnings metrics; booked hundreds of thousands of dollars in unsupported revenue to further inflate Bankrates reported revenue and earnings; and made materially false statements to conceal the improper accounting entries from Bankrates auditors, shareholders and the investing public.An indictment is merely an allegation and the defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law. The USPIS Washington, D.C., Division investigated the case. Assistant Chief Henry Van Dyck and Trial Attorneys Rush Atkinson, Emily Scruggs and Somil Trivedi of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section are prosecuting the case. The Securities and Exchange Commission and the U.S. Attorneys Office of the Southern District of Florida provided assistance in this matter.None