  A 26-year-old man from Newport News, Virginia, was sentenced today to serve 255 months in prison, followed by five years of supervised release, for engaging in numerous gang-related crimes as a member of the Black P-Stones, including the shooting of a rival gang member, marijuana dealing and lying to a federal grand jury.   Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Dana J. Boente of the Eastern District of Virginia and Special Agent in Charge Royce E. Curtin of the FBIs Norfolk Field Office made the announcement after sentence was imposed by U.S. District Judge Arenda Wright Allen.      According to a statement of facts filed with his plea agreement, Enrique Omar Hinton, aka Rico, admitted that he was a foot soldier in a violent street gang called the Black P-Stones, also referred to as the P-Stone Bloods and Cobra Stones.   The Black P-Stones operated primarily in the Beechmont, Courthouse Green, and Woodview neighborhoods in the Denbigh area of Newport News, and its members engaged in various criminal activities including murders, robberies, drug trafficking, and obstruction of justice.      According to the statement of facts, Hinton joined the gang in 2005, and as a foot soldier, he sold marijuana for the gang, carried firearms, attended gang meetings and planned and participated in the gangs criminal activities.   Additionally, on Dec. 10, 2008, Hinton and others retaliated against a rival gang member who exhibited disrespect toward the girlfriend of a Black P-Stones member.   Approximately seven to eight bullets were fired at the rival gang members home, with bullets entering the living room and front door while two people were inside.      Hinton also admitted that on July 13, 2009, he testified falsely before a federal grand jury to obstruct the investigation of the Black P-Stones and the Dec. 10, 2008, shooting.None   The investigation was led by the FBIs Safe Streets Peninsula Task Force, with the assistance of the Newport News Police Department, James City County Police Department and the Virginia State Police.   This case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Marianne Shelvey of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Eric M. Hurt of the Eastern District of Virginia .