Mahmoud Amin Mohamed Elhassan, 26, of Woodbridge, Virginia, was indicted by a grand jury late yesterday on charges of conspiracy to provide material support to the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), a designated foreign terrorist organization; aiding and abetting the provision of material support to ISIL; and making false statements to the FBI.The indictment was announced by Assistant Attorney General for National Security John P. Carlin and U.S. Attorney Dana J. Boente of the Eastern District of Virginia.According to the indictment, from on or about Aug. 1, 2015, until Jan. 15, 2016, Elhassan unlawfully and knowingly conspired with Joseph Hassan Farrokh to provide material support or resources to ISIL. In furtherance of the conspiracy, on Jan. 15, 2016, Elhassan drove Farrokh to Richmond, Virginia, in order to enable Farrokh to fly to overseas to join ISIL.According to the indictment, Elhassan also attempted to provide material support or resources to ISIL by aiding and abetting Farrokhs attempt to join ISIL. Elhassans aiding and abetting included introducing Farrokh to an individual that Elhassan believed could facilitate Farrokhs travel overseas; driving Farrokh from Farrokhs home to Richmond so that Farrokh could embark on his travel to join ISIL; and making false statements to the FBI about Farrokhs travel in order to hinder the governments investigation of Farrokhs travel.According to the indictment, Elhassan knowingly, unlawfully and willfully made material false, fictitious and fraudulent statements and representations in a matter involving international terrorism, including: On Jan. 15, 2016, Elhassan falsely stated to FBI agents that Farrokh had flown out of Dulles Airport earlier that day on a flight to California to attend a funeral; that Farrokh had said that he would be back in about two weeks; that neither he nor Farrokh supported ISIL; and neither he nor Farrokh ever tried to find someone to help them get to ISIL.An indictment contains allegations that a defendant has committed a crime. Every defendant is presumed to be innocent until and unless proven guilty.If convicted, Elhassan faces a maximum sentence of 48 years in prison. The maximum statutory sentence is prescribed by Congress and is provided here for informational purposes, as the sentencing of the defendant will be determined by the court based on the advisory sentencing guidelines and other statutory factors.The case is being investigated by the FBI Washington Field Office Joint Terrorism Task Force. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Dennis M. Fitzpatrick and Gordon D. Kromberg of the Eastern District of Virginia, along with Trial Attorney D. Andrew Sigler of the National Security Divisions Counterterrorism Section.