  A U.S. citizen living in Amsterdam, Netherlands, was sentenced today to serve  35 years in prison for sexually exploiting a minor in California and elsewhere  and producing images of that abuse.  Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments  Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Benjamin B. Wagner of the Eastern District of  California and Special Agent in Charge Monica M. Miller of the FBIs Sacramento  Division made the announcement.  Christopher David Robinette, 44, pleaded guilty on April 21, 2014, to eight  counts of sexual exploitation of a minor and one count of transporting a minor  in interstate or foreign commerce for purposes of engaging in criminal sexual  activity.  According to court documents, between September 2004 and August 2006,  Robinette traveled to Fresno, California, to sexually exploit a minor and  produce digital still and video images of the abuse.  The sexual abuse took  place in California, including the Fresno area, as well as in Nevada, Mexico and  Costa Rica.  Robinettes crimes were detected shortly after he uploaded images  of child pornography, including images he produced, to a Microsoft SkyDrive  account.  In addition to his prison sentence, Senior U.S. District Judge Anthony W.  Ishii of the Eastern District of California, ordered Robinette to serve a  lifetime of supervised release following his prison term, during which his  access to computers, the Internet and minors will be restricted, and he will be  obligated to register as a sex offender.  This case was investigated by the FBIs Sacramento Division and FBI in The  Hague, Netherlands, with assistance from the Korps Landelijke Politie Diensten  (Dutch National Police), the Amsterdam Amstelland Police Department (Amsterdam  local police), and the Fresno Police Department.  The National Center for  Missing & Exploited Children assisted in coordinating information for a law  enforcement response.  The case was prosecuted by Trial Attorney Maureen Cain of  the Criminal Divisions Child Exploitation and Obscenity Section (CEOS) and  Assistant U.S. Attorney David Gappa of the Eastern District of California.  The Department of Justices Office of International Affairs and CEOS, as well  as the Dutch Ministry of Security and Justice, assisted in coordinating  Robinettes extradition to Fresno.  The U.S. Marshals Service returned Robinette  to Fresno, and he has been detained as a flight risk and danger to the community  since his initial court appearance on Dec. 26, 2012. None