  Deputy Attorney General James Cole made a return trip today to the U.S.  Customs and Border Protections McAllen Station and processing facility to  discuss steps the Department of Justice is taking to help address the influx of  migrants crossing the southwest border.  Chief Patrol Agent Kevin Oaks and Deputy Chief Patrol Agent Raul Ortiz gave  the Deputy Attorney General a tour of the facility and a briefing on the  operations at McAllen.  McAllen staff discussed the numbers of migrants that are  arriving each day, including the numbers of unaccompanied children, families and  adults; and the reasons, including violence in Central American countries, that  many are giving for making the dangerous trek to the U.S. border.  Cole also  viewed the stations processing facility, where migrants who have arrived in the  past few days are housed.  During his talk with McAllen staff, Cole took the opportunity to highlight  the Justice Departments commitment to prioritizing adjudication of cases that  fall into the following four groups: unaccompanied children who recently crossed  the border; families who recently crossed the border and are held in detention;  families who recently crossed the border but are on alternatives to detention;  and other detained cases, including border crossers and significant public  safety threats.  He also emphasized that the departments intention to reassign  immigration judges in immigration courts around the country from their current  dockets to hear the cases of individuals falling in these four groups.  Cole noted that the department is also seeking new funding for as many as 40  more immigration judges and to provide technical assistance to Central American  countries in identifying and dismantling smuggling operations that take  advantage of migrants seeking to enter the U.S.  He also noted that the  department has requested funding to provide technical assistance in combating  transnational crime and the threat posed by criminal gangs.  Cole reiterated  that the department continues to focus on investigating and prosecuting  smugglers who exploit and victimize vulnerable migrants, including children, in  partnership with DHS and foreign governments. The discussion with McAllen staff  also included a productive exchange of ideas on strategic ways to combat  smuggling.  The Deputy Attorney General was impressed by the professionalism and  dedication of the McAllen staff and thanked them for their service.  Cole last  visited the facility in November 2013.