The Justice Department announced today that it has reached a cooperative settlement agreement with the Arapahoe, Colo., County Sheriffs Office under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). This agreement is a companion to one reached on March 8, 2013, with the city of Englewood, Colo. None None Once the person expresses a need for a sign language interpreter, Englewood and Arapahoe have agreed to provide one under most circumstances, often within an hour of the request. People who are deaf or hard of hearing need to be able to communicate clearly with police and sheriff officers, whether they are crime victims, witnesses, arrestees, detainees, or just members of the public, said Eve Hill, Senior Counselor to the Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division. Citizens of the City of Englewood and Arapahoe County should be proud of their leaders. I also have to express gratitude to the Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition and the Colorado Association of the Deaf for their important work  and creative problem-solving-- in this area. Englewood Police Chief John Collins and Arapahoe County Sheriff J. Grayson Robinson deserve our thanks and appreciation for their effort to provide effective models for Colorados  and the nations  law enforcement communities to work with deaf and hard of hearing citizens, said U.S. Attorney for the District of Colorado John Walsh. I strongly encourage law enforcement agencies throughout Colorado to follow their lead and adopt these tried-and-true measures. Doing so is simple, cost-effective, and will enhance law enforcement agencies protection of public safety while complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act.  Under the settlements, the city of Englewood and Arapahoe County will each pay $35,000 to the private plaintiffs. In addition, they will enter into contracts with qualified sign language interpreters to ensure ready availability, train their staff on the ADA, appoint ADA coordinators, post signs indicating the availability of sign language interpreters and other auxiliary aids and services for people who are deaf or hard of hearing, provide text telephones and volume control telephones, modify their handcuffing policies for people who use sign language or hand writing to communicate, stock and provide hearing aid and cochlear implant processor batteries in the detention facility, and adopt policies consistent with the ADA. The private plaintiffs also signed these agreements, which resolved the Department of Justices investigations as well as the private lawsuit. NoneNone