Centerra Services International Inc., formerly known as Wackenhut Services LLC, has agreed to pay $7.4 million to resolve allegations that Wackenhut violated the False Claims Act by double billing and inflating labor costs in connection with a contract for firefighting and fire protection services in Iraq, the Department of Justice announced today. Centerra is a security services company headquartered in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida.Our military depends on the private sector  both prime contractors and subcontractors  to provide critical services to protect the health and safety of our men and women in uniform, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer, head of the Justice Departments Civil Division. Those subcontractors who knowingly inflate the costs of these services, which are passed onto the government and the taxpayer, will face appropriate consequences. Todays settlement demonstrates our continuing vigilance to ensure that our servicemen and women obtain the services they need at the price we bargained for.Wackenhut provided U.S. military bases with firefighting and fire protection services under a subcontract with Kellogg Brown & Root Inc. (KBR), the prime contractor for the Armys contract for logistical support in the military theater, known as LOGCAP III. LOGCAPIII is the third generation of contracts under the Armys Logistical Civil Augmentation Program. The government alleged that from 2008 to 2010, Wackenhut inflated its labor costs by billing the salaries of certain managers as direct costs under the subcontract, when those salaries had already been charged as indirect costs. The government further alleged that Wackenhut artificially inflated its labor rate by counting its costs for holidays, vacation, sick leave, rest and recuperation and other variable labor costs twice in calculating the rate. Wackenhut billed KBR, which then passed on the costs to the government under LOGCAP III.Contractors are expected to comply with their statutory obligations and act in good faith when dealing with the U.S. government, said Special Agent in Charge Janice M. Flores of the Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS) Southwest Field Office. The DCIS is committed to working with its partner agencies, such as the U.S. Department of Justice, Defense Contract Audit Agency and the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command to ensure the integrity of the Defense Departments procurement process. This settlement demonstrates that combatting fraud, waste and abuse within Department of Defense contracting remains a top priority.NoneThis settlement was the result of a coordinated effort among the Civil Divisions Commercial Litigation Branch, the U.S. Attorneys Office of the Eastern District of Texas, the Department of Defense Inspector Generals Office, the Defense Criminal Investigative Service and the Defense Contract Audit Agency.None