Defendant Illegally Obtained Federal Contracts Meant for Small, Disadvantaged BusinessesMichelle Cho, an officer of Far East Construction Corporation (Far East) and other construction companies, pleaded guilty todayto a federal charge of conspiring to commit wire fraud. Cho also agreed to pay forfeiture in the amount of $169,166 and pay a criminal fine in the amount of $35,000.The plea agreement was announced by Acting Assistant Attorney General Renata Hesse of the Justice Departments Antitrust Division; U.S. Attorney Channing D. Phillips of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Columbia; Assistant Director in Charge Paul M. Abbate of the FBIs Washington Field Office; Inspector General Peggy E. Gustafson for the Small Business Administration (SBA); Inspector General Carol Fortine Ochoa of the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA); Special Agent in Charge Brian J. Reihms of the Central Field Office of the Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS) and Director Frank Robey of the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Commands Major Procurement Fraud Unit (MPFU).According to court documents filed as part of the plea, Cho utilized two straw companies, including Far East, to conspire with MCC Construction Company (MCC) and others to defraud the SBA. Chos two companies were eligible to receive federal government contracts set asides for small, disadvantaged businesses. Cho and MCC understood that MCC would, illegally, perform all of the work on these contracts. In so doing, MCC was able to win 27 government contracts worth over $70 million from 2008 to 2011. The scope and duration of the scheme resulted in a significant number of opportunities lost to legitimate small and disadvantaged businesses.Michelle Cho knowingly participated in a long-standing scheme that manipulated federal contracts designated for small, disadvantaged businesses, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Hesse. We will continue to work with our law enforcement partners to protect the integrity of the procurement system.NoneTodays guilty plea signifies our commitment to bringing individuals that conspire to fraudulently gain access to set-aside Federal contracting opportunities to justice, said SBA Inspector General Gustafson. Fraudulently passing work to ineligible businesses subverts the intent of SBAs preferential contracting programs to assist small businesses as engines of economic development and job creation. I want to thank the U.S. Attorneys Office and our law enforcement partners for their leadership and dedication to serving justice.We will continue to investigate and hold accountable those who game the government procurement process at the expense American taxpayers and legitimate small businesses, said GSA Inspector General Ochoa.The Defense Criminal Investigative Service is committed to working with our partner agencies to combat fraud impacting the Department of Defense's vital programs and operations and maintain the integrity of the procurement system, said Special Agent in Charge Reihms.Today's plea is a fitting end for those who conspire to defraud the government, said Director Robey. The Major Procurement Fraud Unit is proud to work with our federal law enforcement partners to protect the coffers of the U.S. government from those who break the law and threaten the readiness of the U.S. Army.Cho, 45, of Downers Grove, Illinois, was charged in a criminal information on October 12, 2016 in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia with one count of conspiring to commit wire fraud. She waived the requirement of being charged by way of federal indictment, agreed to the filing of the information and accepted responsibility for her criminal conduct. The charge carries a statutory maximum of five years in prison and potential financial penalties.NoneEarlier this year, MCC pleaded guilty to conspiring to commit fraud on the United States by illegally obtaining government contracts that were intended for small, disadvantaged businesses and agreed to pay $1,769,924 in criminal penalties and forfeiture. In June, Thomas Harper, another former officer and owner of MCC, pleaded guilty to conspiring to obstruct proceedings before a department or agency. In August, Walter Crummy, another former officer and owner of MCC, pleaded guilty to conspiring to commit wire fraud.The investigation is being conducted by the FBIs Washington Field Office, the Inspector General for the Small Business Administration (SBA), the Inspector General of the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA), the Central Field Office of the Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS) and the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Commands Major Procurement Fraud Unit (MPFU).The prosecution was handled by Assistant U.S. Attorney John Marston and former Assistant U.S. Attorney Matt Graves of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Columbia and Trial Attorneys Kevin B. Hart, Justin P. Murphy and former Assistant Chief Craig Y. Lee of the Antitrust Division.