A resident of Raleigh, North Carolina, was sentenced to prison today for his role in a conspiracy to file false claims and for aggravated identity theft, Acting Assistant Attorney General Caroline D. Ciraolo of the Department of Justices Tax Division and U.S. Attorney Thomas G. Walker of the Eastern District of North Carolina announced.Christian Rhodes, 39, was sentenced to serve 144 months in prison to be followed by three years of supervised release and ordered to pay $1,036,918 in restitution to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Rhodes pleaded guilty on May 11 to one count of conspiracy to file false claims and one count of aggravated identity theft.Todays sentence reflects the heavy price that will be paid by those individuals who steal identities and file fraudulent claims for refunds to line their own pockets, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Ciraolo. The department remains committed to working with the IRS and other federal and state law enforcement agencies to identify, prosecute and seek lengthy incarceration of these offenders.NoneAccording to court documents, Rhodes, Wright and others conspired to prepare and file false income tax returns with the IRS. Wright obtained personal identification information of taxpayers and provided this information to Rhodes so that Rhodes, and to a more limited degree Wright, could prepare and file false tax returns that fraudulently claimed refunds. Rhodes also obtained the personal information of taxpayers from other sources, which he used to prepare and file false tax returns. The false information on the returns included deductions, credits, employers, wages and withholdings. Rhodes and Wright charged taxpayers a fee for preparing false returns.NoneNoneActing Assistant Attorney General Ciraolo commended special agents of IRS-Criminal Investigation, who investigated the case, and Assistant U.S. Attorney Susan Menzer of the Eastern District of North Carolina and Trial Attorneys Lauren M. Castaldi and Rebecca Perlmutter of the Tax Division, who prosecuted the case.None