A federal court in New York entered consent decrees in two civil actions, permanently barring 14 individuals and entities from operating alleged multi-million dollar international mail-fraud schemes.  Both schemes followed a similar pattern, involving a complicated web of actors located across the world. Fraudulent direct mailers created letters falsely claiming that the recipient has won, or will soon win, cash or valuable prizes, or otherwise will come into good fortune. In order to collect these benefits, the letters say that the recipients need only send in a small amount of money for a processing fee. The letters appeared to come from legitimate sources, typically on official-looking letterhead, but were in fact fictitious individuals and organizations including Baroness de Rothman, DNF Funds Office, Finkelstein & Partner, the Harrison Institute, and Marie de Fortune. Moreover, even though the solicitations are in reality identical form letters sent to thousands or tens of thousands of recipients  the letters appear to be personally addressed.  "The Department of Justice is committed to protecting all Americans from fraud and exploitation, Associate Attorney General Rachel Brand said. This exploitation is repugnant and the Justice Department will pursue those who target our nations seniors and other vulnerable American consumers for financial gain. These consent decrees are just one example of the departments broad efforts to protect seniorsand every Americanfrom mail fraud." None Theseactions are an important step in dismantling the many components of this fraudulent mass-mailing industry, said Inspector in Charge Regina Faulkerson. The Postal Inspection Service will continue to aggressively investigate everyone involved in facilitating these predatory mailings. United States v. BDK, et al. None None United States v. Ercan Barka, et al. None Under the consent decrees entered in both cases, the defendants may not use the U.S. mail to distribute fraudulent mailings or any mailings promoting similar schemes. The consent decrees also prevent the defendants from printing, receiving, handling, opening, forwarding, or processing any such direct mailings. The defendants are also prohibited from creating, renting, or selling any lists of demographic information relating to consumers who have responded to defendants or other certain direct mailings. Nor may the defendants process any payments received in response to certain direct mailings. Finally, the consent decrees authorize the U.S. Postal Inspection Service to return any victim money or personal checks sent to the defendants and detained by the Postal Inspection Service. The United States cases are being handled by Trial Attorneys Gabriel Scannapieco and Ann Entwistle of the Civil Divisions Consumer Protection Branch, and Chief of Affirmative Civil Enforcement John Vagelatos and Assistant U.S. Attorney Thomas Price of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of New York, in coordination with the U.S. Postal Inspection Service. None