None  WASHINGTON - The leader of the Almighty Latin King and Queen Nation (ALKQN) in Texas and one of his enforcers were sentenced today to life in prison by U.S. District Judge Sam R. Cummings, announced Assistant Attorney General of the Criminal Division Lanny A. Breuer and U.S. Attorney James T. Jacks for the Northern District of Texas.  On Feb. 24, 2010, Jose Robledo Nava, aka "Chino," 31, of Lubbock, Texas, and James Johnathan Cole, aka "Blitz," 19, of Lamesa, Texas, were each found guilty by a federal jury in Lubbock on two counts of using a firearm to commit murder during and in relation to a drug trafficking crime, and one count of a conspiracy to distribute and possess with intent to distribute five kilograms or more of cocaine and 100 kilograms or more of marijuana. The jury also found Nava guilty on one count of possession with intent to distribute 500 grams or more of cocaine, one count of conspiracy to engage in the business of dealing in firearms and one count of possession of stolen firearms.  Nava and Cole were also found guilty for their involvement in a drive-by shooting in Big Spring, Texas, on May 4, 2008, in which six people were shot with an AK-47 type rifle. According to the evidence presented at trial, the victims included Michael Cardona and Valeria Garcia, who was 26 weeks pregnant at the time of the shooting. Cardona and Garcia ultimately died as a result of their wounds. Evidence presented at trial proved that after the shootings, Nava ordered two of his co-conspirators to destroy the murder weapon.  "The sentences imposed today  life in prison  send a powerful message that heinous acts of gang violence will not be tolerated," said Assistant Attorney General Breuer. "No community should be forced to live in fear. In courtrooms across the United States, the Criminal Divisions Gang Unit and its partners at the U.S. Attorneys Offices are working tirelessly to bring dangerous gang members to justice."  "The verdict in this case and the sentences imposed against these gang members is a victory for all law abiding citizens, not only in Big Spring, Texas, but across the country. It also represents a warning to any other individuals who decide to follow the path of a member of a criminal gang," said U.S. Attorney James T. Jacks. "Citizens of this country are tired of gangs, what they represent and the effect of their activities on their communities. The Department of Justice through the work of its Gang Unit, U.S. Attorneys offices around the country, and our partners in federal, state and local law enforcement agencies have put violent criminal gangs in the cross-hairs and will continue their efforts to eliminate these organizations from our communities      ."  According to evidence presented at trial, Nava was the Texas state enforcer and representative for the ALKQN. To date, 18 co-defendants have pleaded guilty and been sentenced for their roles in this conspiracy. The jury found that Nava and Cole were members of a conspiracy that included Luis Nava, aka "Flaco;" Reynaldo Nava, aka "Rat;" Robert Allen Ramirez, aka "Nesyo;" Marie Chavez, aka "Shorty;" Carol Ann Rivas Nava; Cecily Dominique Juarez; Jesus Martinez, aka "Solid;" David Hellums, aka "Cutthroat;" Eduardo Daniel Mares, aka "Pitt;" Gabriel Lee Gonzales; Michael Conde, aka "Psycho;" John Guzman; Guerrero Olivas, aka "Screech;" Eliseo Perez, aka "Wicked;" Joe Canales, aka "Slick;" and others. The jury found that from 2001 until Dec. 13, 2008, Nava and Cole directly or indirectly agreed to distribute, and possessed with intent to distribute, cocaine and marijuana.  The case was investigated by the National Gang Targeting, Enforcement and Coordination Center (GangTECC); the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force; the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration; the FBI; U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement; the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; the El Paso Intelligence Center; U.S. Customs and Border Protection; the U.S. Marshals Service; the Texas Department of Public Safety; the Police Departments of Lubbock, Midland, Houston, San Antonio and Big Spring, Texas; the Lubbock County, Texas, Sheriffs Office; and the Howard County, Texas, District Attorneys Office.  The case was prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Cody L. Skipper and Joseph A. Cooley of the Criminal Divisions Gang Unit and Assistant U.S. Attorney Denise Williams of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Northern District of Texas.