David Woods, 38, of Corfu, New York, was sentenced today to 15 years of incarceration, for conspiracy to advertise child pornography. Woods was also required to 15 years of supervised release. Chief U.S. District Court Judge Dana Christensen sentenced Woods following a May 22, 2015, hearing, in which Woods pleaded guilty to the offense.In an Offer of Proof filed by Assistant U.S. Attorney Cyndee Peterson, the government stated that if the case had proceeded to trial, the government would have proven that an invitation-only online bulletin board, referred to as Dark Moon, was created in 2011. It allowed members to advertise and exchange images of child pornography. In early 2012, Woods became an active member of the bulletin board and continued to be an active member in a more advanced role until April 2013. Woods made posts in the advanced member section of the board, which included URL links and preview images of child pornography. Woods also requested child pornography from other members of the Dark Moon and responded to and commented on child pornography posts made by other members. Law enforcement analysis of Woods digital and other devices revealed that he used hard drives, a computer, Woods digital devices and other evidence, which revealed that he used multiple hard drives and a computer, in commission of the crime. Woods was ordered to forfeit those items at the sentencing.This case was initiated under the Department of Justices Project Safe Childhood initiative which was launched in 2006 to combat the proliferation of technology-facilitated crimes involving the sexual exploitation of children. Through a network of federal, state and local law enforcement agencies and advocacy organizations, Project Safe Childhood attempts to protect children by investigating and prosecuting offenders involved in child sexual exploitation. It is implemented through partnerships including the Montana Internet Crimes Against Children (ICAC) Task Force. The ICAC Task Force Program was created to assist state and local law enforcement agencies by enhancing their investigative response to technology facilitated crimes against children. Investigative agencies in the case include the FBI, Homeland Security Investigations and Montana Division of Criminal Investigation.Assistant U.S. Attorney Cyndee Peterson prosecuted this case along with Maureen Cain, of the Department of Justice Child Exploitation & Obscenity Section. Because there is no parole in the federal system, Woods will have to serve at least 85 percent of his sentence before he is released from prison.