Lawal Olaniyi Babafemi, 35, a Nigerian citizen, was sentenced today to 22 years in prison for conspiring to provide and providing material support to a designated foreign terrorist organization, al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP). The sentence was imposed by the U.S. District Judge John Gleeson of the Eastern District of New York.Assistant Attorney General for National Security John P. Carlin, Acting U.S. Attorney Kelly T. Currie of the Eastern District of New York, Assistant Director in Charge Diego G. Rodriguez of the FBI New York Field Office and Commissioner William J. Bratton of the New York City Police Department (NYPD) made the announcement.NoneWith this sentence, Lawal Olaniyi Babafemi is being held accountable for conspiring with members of al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula and providing material support to the foreign terrorist organization, said Assistant Attorney General Carlin. Babafemi travelled to Yemen to receive weapons training and to learn how to contribute to AQAPs English-language media operation, in addition to receiving money to recruit others to join AQAPs ranks. Counterterrorism is the National Security Divisions highest priority and we will continue our efforts to detect, deter and hold accountable those whoprovide material support to designated foreign terrorist organizations.The defendant traveled to Yemen twice to seek out and commit himself to the radical terrorist organization AQAP and its goal of causing mass devastation in the West, said Acting U.S. Attorney Currie. He undertook his journey soon after his fellow countrymans notorious, albeit failed, attempt on behalf of AQAP to detonate a bomb concealed in his underwear in U.S. airspace. Babafemi received weapons training and worked with AQAPs English-language media organization to recruit Westerners to its murderous mission. The investigation, prosecution, and conviction of Babafemi exemplifies the tireless efforts of the FBIs Joint Terrorism Task Forces in New York and San Diego to identify and bring to justice those intent on joining and supporting violent terrorist organizations around the globe. This case is especially important as it relates to efforts to prosecute individuals who both engage in physical violence themselves and who create and disseminate violent terrorist propaganda worldwide in an effort to convince others to do so.The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Zainab Ahmad and Hilary Jager of the Eastern District of New York, with assistance from Trial Attorney Annamartine Salick of the Justice Departments Counterterrorism Section.