  Canadian/Lebanese dual national Ousama M. Naaman pleaded guilty today to participating in an eight-year conspiracy to defraud the United Nations Oil for Food Program (OFFP) and to bribe Iraqi government officials in connection with the sale of a chemical additive used in the refining of leaded fuel, announced Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Criminal Division.   Naaman, 61, of Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, was originally indicted on Aug. 7, 2008, in U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia.   Naaman was arrested on July 30, 2009, in Frankfurt, Germany, and extradited to the United States.   He pleaded guilty today to a two-count superseding information filed June 24, 2010, charging him with one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud, violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), and falsify the books and records of a U.S. issuer; and one count of violating the FCPA.   Naaman and his companies were the Iraqi agents of Innospec Inc., a U.S. company.   On March 18, 2010, Innospec pleaded guilty to a 12-count indictment charging wire fraud in connection with its payment of kickbacks to the Iraqi government under the OFFP, as well as violations of the FCPA in connection with bribe payments it made to officials in the Iraqi Ministry of Oil.    NoneNone  Naaman faces a maximum prison sentence of 10 years.   His sentencing has not yet been scheduled.   The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Kathleen M. Hamann and Assistant Chief Nathaniel B. Edmonds of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section.   The case is being investigated by the FBIs Washington Field Offices dedicated FCPA squad and the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcements Counter Proliferation Investigations Unit.   Significant assistance was provided by the Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commissions FCPA Unit.   The Innospec matter has been investigated in close cooperation with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Department of the Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Control, and the United Kingdoms Serious Fraud Office.