  The owner and operator of Nestors Health Services, Inc. (Nestor  HH), a now-defunct Miami home health care agency, pleaded guilty today in  connection with a $6.5 million health care fraud scheme.   Acting Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the  Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Wifredo A. Ferrer of the  Southern District of Florida, Special Agent in Charge George L. Piro of the  FBIs Miami Field Office, and Acting Special Agent in Charge Brian Martens of  the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General  (HHS-OIG), Office of Investigations Miami office made the announcement.   Cruz Sonia Collado64, of Homestead, Florida, pleaded guiltybefore U.S. District Judge Robert  N. Scola in the Southern District of Florida to one count of conspiracy to offer  and pay health care kickbacks and to defraud the United States, and to one count  of offering and paying health care kickbacks.   Collado was an owner and operator of Nestor HH, a Miami home  health care agency that purported to provide home health and physical therapy  services to Medicare beneficiaries.   According to court documents, Collado and her co-conspirators  operated Nestor HH for the purpose of billing Medicare for, among other things,  expensive physical therapy and home health care services that were not medically  necessary and/or were not provided.   As  the owner and operator of Nestor HH, Collado paid kickbacks and bribes to  patient recruiters, in return for those recruiters providing patients to Nestor  HH for home health care and therapy services that were not medically necessary,  and in many instances, were not provided.  Collado would then fraudulently bill  the Medicare program for home health care services on behalf of these recruited  patients, which Collado knew was in violation of federal criminal laws.   From  approximately March 2009 through at least January 2014, Nestor HH submitted more  than $6.5 million in claims for home health services, and fraudulently obtained  more than $6.1 million before the fraud was exposed.   The case was investigated by the FBI and HHS-OIG and was brought  as part of the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, under the supervision of the  Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the  Southern District of Florida.   This case  is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Anne P. McNamara and A. Brendan Stewart  of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section.   Since its inception in March 2007, the Medicare Fraud Strike  Force, now operating in nine cities across the country, has charged nearly 1,900  defendants who have collectively billed the Medicare program for more than $6  billion.   In addition, HHSs Centers for  Medicare and Medicaid Services, working in conjunction with HHS-OIG, has removed  over 17,000 providers from the Medicare program since 2011. None 