A former sales executive of Embraer S.A. (Embraer), a Brazilian-based manufacturer of aircraft, pleaded guilty today in connection with a scheme to pay bribes to a high-level foreign government official in exchange for assistance in securing Embraers sale of aircraft to Saudi Arabias national oil company. None None As part of his plea, Steven, a former vice president of sales & marketing in Embraers Executive Jets Division, admitted that he engaged in a scheme to have Embraer pay bribes to a foreign official in exchange for assistance in getting an aircraft sales contract with favorable terms awarded to Embraer; retained a kickback as part of the scheme; and lied to law enforcement officials about his kickback. None In pleading guilty, Steven admitted that he executed, and conspired with others to execute, the bribery and kickback schemes; laundered and conspired to launder the proceeds of those schemes through the South African company and lied to U.S. law enforcement about the kickback. The guilty plea entered today follows the execution in October 2016 of a deferred prosecution agreement between the Department and Embraer, under which Embraer agreed to pay a $107 million penalty to the Department as part of a $205 million global resolution to investigations by the Department, the Securities and Exchange Commission and Brazilian authorities related to corrupt conduct in several countries, including Saudi Arabia. The agreement acknowledged Embraers cooperation with the investigations. With the cooperation of U.S. authorities, Brazilian authorities have charged 11 individuals for their alleged involvement in Embraers misconduct in the Dominican Republic. Saudi Arabian authorities have charged two individuals for their alleged involvement in Embraers misconduct in Saudi Arabia. None The Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs provided significant assistance in this matter. The Department also appreciates the cooperation and assistance provided by authorities in Brazil, the Dominican Republic, South Africa and Switzerland in this matter. In 2015, the FBI formed International Corruption Squads across the country to address national and international implications of foreign corruption. None