  WASHINGTON  Jeffrey Davis, a former employee of the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA), pleaded guilty today in U.S. District Court in Atlanta to engaging in a felony conflict of interest by collecting fees from customers of a company he owned and operated for services he performed as part of his official duties at NARA, announced Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Criminal Division.  Davis, 43, was assigned as an archives technician at NARAs Atlanta Records Center from August 2005 until his employment was terminated in October 2008, according to court documents. As an archives technician, Davis was responsible for assisting the public with requests for court documents maintained by NARA. According to the plea agreement, from July 2007 until October 2008 while employed by NARA, Davis also owned and operated a company named Documents Archival Retrieval Transferring Services of Georgia (DARTSOFGA), a document retrieval company that charged its customers a fee for obtaining court records in addition to the fees charged by NARA and the Administrative Office of the United States Courts (AOUSC).  From September 2007 to October 2008, Davis admitted he used his official position at NARA to retrieve and copy court documents for DARTSOFGA customers. In an effort to conceal from NARA his affiliation with DARTSOFGA and to increase DARTSOFGAs profits, Davis failed to pay NARA and AOUSC the applicable fees associated with the DARTSOFGA customer requests for court records.  Davis pleaded guilty to receiving monetary payments from DARTSOFGA in connection with the retrieval of court records from NARA using his official position. According to the plea agreement, Davis admitted such payments were an illegal supplementation of the salary paid by the government as compensation for his services as a NARA employee. Davis faces a maximum sentence of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. Davis sentencing is scheduled for Sept. 10, 2009, before District Judge Timothy C. Batten Sr.  This case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Justin V. Shur of the Criminal Divisions Public Integrity Section, headed by William M. Welch II, Chief. The case is being investigated by the U.S. National Archives and Records Administration, Office of Inspector General.None