  The Department of Justice announced today that an $80 million  False Claims Act judgment was entered against BNP Paribas for submitting false  claims for payment guarantees issued by the U.S. Department of Agriculture  (USDA).  BNP Paribas is a global financial institution headquartered in  Paris.   We will not tolerate  the misuse of taxpayer funded programs designed to help American businesses,  said Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Civil Division  Stuart F. Delery.  Companies that abuse these programs will be held  accountable.   The United States filed a lawsuit against BNP Paribas in  connection with its receipt of payment guarantees under USDAs Supplier Credit  Guarantee (SCG) Program.  The program provided payment guarantees to U.S.-based  exporters for their sales of grain and other agricultural commodities to  importers in foreign countries.  The program encouraged American exporters to  sell American agricultural commodities to foreign importers and covered part of  the losses if the foreign importers failed to pay.  The SCG Program regulations  provided that U.S. exporters were ineligible to participate in the SCG Program  if the exporter and foreign importer were under common ownership or control.   The judgment entered by the court resolves the governments  allegations that, from 1998 to 2005, BNP Paribas participated in a sustained  scheme to defraud the SCG Program.  In furtherance of the scheme, American  exporters and Mexican importers who were under common control improperly  obtained SCG Program export credit guarantees for transactions between the  affiliated exporters and importers.  In some cases, the underlying transactions  were shams and did not involve any real shipment of grain.  BNP Paribas accepted  assignment of the credit guarantees from the American exporters, even though it  knew that the affiliated exporters and importers were ineligible for SCG Program  financing, and a BNP Paribas vice-president, Jerry Cruz, received bribes from  the exporters.  Beginning in April 2005, when the Mexican importers began  defaulting on their payment obligations, BNP Paribas submitted claims to the  USDA for the resulting losses.   On Jan. 20, 2012, Cruz pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit  bank fraud, mail fraud and wire fraud, and conspiracy to commit money  laundering.   I would like to thank the Department of Justice and the USDA  General Counsels office for their collaboration in recovering $80 million under  this judgment, said Administrator of USDAs Foreign Agricultural Service Phil  Karsting.  This illustrates the importance USDA and this administration places  on protecting the integrity of our programs.   The resolution of this matter was  the result of a coordinated effort among the Commercial Litigation Branch of the  Justice Departments Civil Division, the USDA, the USDA Office of Inspector  General, the U.S. Postal Inspection Service and the Internal Revenue Service  Criminal Investigation. None