NoneAs part of this settlement, Extendicare has also been required to enter into a five year chain-wide Corporate Integrity Agreement with HHS-OIG. Extendicare is a Delaware corporation that, through its subsidiaries, operates 146 skilled nursing facilities in 11 states. ProStep provides physical, speech, and occupational rehabilitation services.NoneNoneNoneThis investigation and settlement highlights the importance of leveraging the joint resources and expertise of the states and federal government, said Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine. Working together allowed us to focus our efforts nationally on protecting the most vulnerable in our population who rely on quality care in our nursing homes.NoneNoneThe United States remains committed to demanding the highest quality of care for nursing home and skilled facility residents, said U.S. Attorney Carter M. Stewart for the Southern District of Ohio. We are proud of our efforts to work cooperatively with our partners at the Ohio Attorney Generals Medicaid Fraud Control Unit, as well as with other U.S. Attorneys offices across the country. We will remain vigilant in our efforts to combat healthcare fraud, especially when it impacts the most vulnerable in our society, including seniors and others requiring significant long term care.Nursing home residents should not be subject to unreasonable or unnecessary rehabilitation therapy that is dictated by a companys profits rather than patient needs, said U.S. Attorney Zane David Memeger for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. It is critical to the integrity of a system that benefits millions of Americans that we do as much as possible to hold accountable those who commit fraudulent acts. The Eastern District of Pennsylvania will continue its efforts to prevent Medicare fraud and protect government beneficiaries.NoneThis case demonstrates that the government will aggressively pursue allegations of abuse and grossly deficient care, said Inspector General Daniel R. Levinson of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Our five-year corporate integrity agreement with Extendicare requires a government-selected quality of care monitor be retained by Extendicare, and additional rigorous provisions designed to ensure Extendicare provides appropriate staffing and monitors the quality of care provided to its residents.Under the False Claims Act, private citizens, known as relators, can bring suit on behalf of the United States and share in any recovery. Two relators brought separate cases against Extendicare. Relator Tracy Lovvron will receive more than $1.8 million as her share of the recovery in the RUGS upcoding case, and Relator Donald Gallick will receive more than $250,000 as his share of the recovery in the Ohio worthless services case.NoneNoneNone