NoneNoneNoneNone  Beginning in August 1997 through fall 1998, evidence presented at trial showed that Bourke and others conspired to pay or cause to be paid millions of dollars worth of bribes to Azeri government officials to ensure that their investment consortium would gain, in secret partnership with the Azeri officials, a controlling interest in SOCAR and its substantial oil reserves. For example, evidence presented at trial showed that in August 1997, Kozeny allegedly agreed to transfer to corrupt Azeri officials two-thirds of the vouchers and options Oily Rock purchased, and to give them two-thirds of all of the profits arising from his investment consortiums participation in SOCARs privatization. In addition, evidence presented at trial showed that in June 1998, Bourke knew that Kozeny arranged for Oily Rock to increase its authorized share capital from $150 million to $450 million so that the additional $300 million worth of Oily Rock shares could be transferred to one or more of the Azeri officials as a further bribe payment. Bourke also arranged for two of the corrupt officials to travel to New York City on different occasions in 1998 to receive medical treatment, for which Oily Rock paid. Thereafter, in interviews with the FBI in April and May of 2002, Bourke falsely stated that he was not aware that Kozeny had made the alleged payments to the Azeri Officials.  Bourke and Kozeny were indicted in October 2005. At sentencing, scheduled for Oct. 13, 2009, Bourke faces a maximum penalty of five years in prison and a maximum fine of $250,000 or twice the gross gain or loss resulting from the alleged violations on each of the two counts on which he was convicted. Bourke was acquitted of one count of money laundering.  The prosecution and the related case against Kozeny are being handled jointly by the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New York and the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Harry A. Chernoff and Iris Lan, as well as Fraud Section Deputy Chief Mark F. Mendelsohn and Assistant Chief Robertson Park are prosecuting the case.  The charges contained in the indictment are merely accusations and defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.