  WASHINGTONOn the one-year anniversary of the Supreme Court decision that  struck down a key part of the Voting Rights Act, Attorney General Eric Holder  pledged Wednesday that the Justice Department would remain aggressive in using  Section 2 of the lawwhich was left intact by the Courts decisionto guard  against unjust voting restrictions.  Section 2, which prohibits barriers to voting that disadvantage minority  groups, provided the basis for the departments lawsuits last year against  voting laws in North Carolina and Texas. It also formed the basis for a recent  challenge to a voter ID statue in Wisconsin. In April, a federal district court  sided with the plaintiffs in that case, declaring that the Wisconsin law  violated both the equal protection clause of the Constitution and Section 2 of  the Voting Rights Act.  Holder joined in criticizing the Wisconsin law in his message Wednesday.  The Wisconsin law erected significant barriers to equal access without  serving any legitimate government interest, Holder said.  Its clear that discriminatory voting laws, rules, and regulations are not  confined to any particular region. And thanks to Section 2 of the Voting Rights  Act, neither are our enforcement efforts, he added.  A full copy of the Attorney Generals video message appears below.  One year ago today, in the case of Shelby County, a narrowly split but  deeply divided U.S. Supreme Court struck down a key part of the historic Voting  Rights Act of 1965.  This was a deeply flawed decision  and it effectively invalidated a  cornerstone of American civil rights law.  In the nearly five decades leading up to that ruling, a critical provision  of the Voting Rights Act known as Section 5  which enjoyed consistent support  from Members of Congress and presidents of both parties  provided the Justice  Department with a rigorous tool to fight unjust attempts to abridge voting  rights.  It required certain jurisdictions with histories of discrimination to seek  preclearance, from the Department or a federal court, before new voting  changes could take effect  so these proposals could be subjected to fair and  thorough review.  This empowered the Justice Department to protect the right of every American  to cast a ballot  unencumbered by discriminatory rules, regulations, and  procedures that, intentionally or not, discourage and disenfranchise.  Indeed, not long before the Shelby County decision, a federal judge  considering the Departments objection to South Carolinas voter ID law noted  the continuing utility of preclearance in deterring problematic, and hence  encouraging non-discriminatory, changes in state and local voting laws.  When the Shelby decision effectively denied us this tool, the Departments  Civil Rights Division shifted resources to the enforcement of other protections  that remain on the books  including Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act, which  prohibits barriers to voting that disadvantage minority groups.None  In April, a federal district court in Wisconsin ruled that Wisconsins  unnecessarily restrictive voter-ID law, which disproportionately impacted the  states African-American and Latino voters, violated both the equal protection  clause of the Constitution and Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act.  The Wisconsin law erected significant barriers to equal access without  serving any legitimate government interest  because, as the judge found, and I  quote, The defendants could not point to a single instance of known voter  impersonation occurring in Wisconsin at any time in the recent past.  By restricting access and decreasing voter participation, laws such as those  in Wisconsin would shrink  rather than expand  access to the franchise.  This is inconsistent not only with our history, but with our ideals as a  nation  a nation founded on the principle that all citizens are entitled to  equal opportunity, equal representation, and equal rights.  And thats why, across this country, the Department of Justice will continue  to take aggressive steps to stand against disenfranchisement wherever it exists   and in whatever form.  Its clear that discriminatory voting laws, rules, and regulations are not  confined to any particular region. And thanks to Section 2 of the Voting Rights  Act, neither are our enforcement efforts.  We will not simply stand by as the voices of many citizens are shut out of  the process of self-governance.  And in the days ahead, we will continue to work with Congressional leaders  to fill the void left by the Supreme Courts ruling  and use every available  tool to safeguard the most basic right of American citizenship.None