Vinh Chuong Jimmy Kha, 50, and Felix Kha 26, were sentenced today in federal district court in Los Angeles to serve 42 and 46 months, respectively, in prison for crimes related to illegal international trafficking of rhinoceros horn, announced Ignacia S. Moreno, Assistant Attorney General for the Environment and Natural Resources Division of the Department of Justice and Andr Birotte Jr., U.S. Attorney for the Central District of California.In addition to the prison sentences, the two defendants were ordered to pay a total of $20,000 in criminal fines and pay a $185,000 tax fraud penalty and assessment. In addition, Jimmy Khas Win Lee Corporation was ordered to pay a $100,000 fine. Jimmy and Felix Kha, along with Win Lee Corporation, were also ordered to pay a total of $800,000 in restitution to the Multinational Species Conservation Fund, a statutorily created fund that is managed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) to support international efforts to protect and conserve rhinos and other critically endangered species around the world. The defendants previously abandoned their portion of interest in $2 million worth of rhino parts and vehicles seized in the investigation.The Khas are among several individuals charged so far with federal crimes as a result of Operation Crash, an ongoing FWS-led investigation of the black market rhino horn trade named for the term used to describe a herd of rhinoceros.The Khas engaged in egregious criminal conduct by taking the horns of a species on the brink of extinction and making millions of dollars in the illegal trade in rhino horns, said Ignacia S. Moreno, Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division. The Khas sentence sends a strong message that those who violate the law by illegally trading in rhino horns will be held accountable to the fullest extent of the law.NoneWith no known predators other than humans, rhinoceros are a prehistoric species and one of the largest herbivores on earth. All rhinoceros species are protected under U.S. and international law, and the black rhinoceros is listed as endangered. Despite national and international protection efforts dating back to 1976, the demand for rhino horn and black market prices have skyrocketed in recent years due to the value that some cultures have placed on the horns for ornamental carvings, good luck charms or alleged medicinal purposes. This has led to a decimation of the global rhinoceros population, which has declined by more than 90 percent since 1970. By the peak of the Khas wildlife trafficking conspiracy in 2011, 448 wild rhinos had been slaughtered for their horns in South Africa alone. Between 2007 and the end of 2011, the poaching of wild South African rhinos increased a tragic and astonishing 3,400 percent, rising from a low of 13 animals in 2007 to 448 animals in 2011.The Criminal ConductOver the course of at least two years from January 2010, through February 2012, Jimmy and Felix Kha conspired with individuals throughout the United States to purchase white and black rhinoceros horn despite knowing that these animals were protected by federal law as endangered and threatened species. Although Jimmy Kha paid, on average, between $5,000 to $7,000 per pound of rhinoceros horn, the horn acquired by the defendants had a fair market value of at least $1 million to $2.5 million. Under the plea agreement, the defendants admitted that they purchased the horns in order to export them overseas to be sold and made into libation cups or used for traditional medicine; made illegal payments to Vietnamese customs officials to ensure clearance of horn shipments to that country; and knowingly evaded income taxes owed in 2009 and 2010.U.S. Attorney Birotte and Assistant Attorney General Moreno commended FWS and its partners for their outstanding work on this investigation. Assisting agencies included the U.S. Postal Inspection Service, the Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigations, and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Joseph O. Johns and Dennis Mitchell of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Central District of California, and Shennie Patel, a Trial Attorney with the Environmental Crimes Section of the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division.