  Representatives of the Presidents Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force (FFETF) met in Chicago today with community stakeholders to discuss national, state and local elements of the banking and housing crisis. The meeting was the first of a series of Fair Lending Forums, and task force representatives in attendance included members from the Department of Justice, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), the Federal Reserve Board and the state of Illinois.None  Task force members participated in panel sessions with Chicago community leaders, including representatives of the Chicago Urban League, the Spanish Coalition for Housing and the Interfaith Housing Center of the Northern Suburbs, to discuss the community impact of discriminatory lending practices in housing and banking, and the growing number of foreclosures. In the afternoon, task force representatives will tour a Chicago neighborhood that was affected by these practices.  Fair lending enforcement is a top priority for Attorney General Eric Holder and for us in the Civil Rights Division, as we continue to grapple with the fallout from the housing boom and subsequent foreclosure crisis, said Assistant Attorney General Perez.   I know that it is the people on the ground who can provide the best insight into whats occurring today, and how its impacting homeowners, neighborhoods and communities.  During the peak of the housing bubble, Chicagos African American and Latino neighborhoods became ground zero for the worst of the mortgage industrys toxic loans. Illinois Attorney General Madigan said.   Unfortunately, many families in these communities continue to struggle today because of the lending industrys illegal, reckless practices. Todays forum is critical because it enables us to combine state and federal resources and create partnerships with agencies on the ground that are committed to ending the types of discriminatory lending practices that helped cause the worst economic meltdown of our time.   NoneNoneNoneNone  The task force, established by President Barack Obama in November 2009 to wage an aggressive, coordinated and proactive effort to investigate and prosecute financial crimes, is composed of representatives from a broad range of federal agencies, regulatory authorities, inspectors general, and state and local law enforcement.