None The defendant companies in the case are Toys Distribution Inc. dba TDI International, S&J Merchandise Inc., BLJ Apparel Inc. and All Season Sales Inc. The defendant individuals are Loan Tuyet Thai, Lan My Lam, Paul Phuong, Cuc T. Thai, Tom Liu and Luan Luu. Companies cannot be allowed to import hazardous toys into the United States, said Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Civil Division Stuart F. Delery. Parents have a right to feel confident that the toys their children play with are safe. The CPSC determined through an investigation that the defendants imported various items into the United States in violation of the Consumer Product Safety Act (CPSA) and the Federal Hazardous Substances Act (FHSA). The violative products that Toys Distribution Inc. imported included: motorized and pull-back toy cars with impermissible lead content and small parts hazards, numerous toy musical instruments with small parts hazards, dolls containing impermissible levels of lead and phthalates and rattles that failed to meet the infant rattle standards. S & J Merchandises imports of violative products included numerous models of toy cars with impermissible lead content or small parts hazards, a toy telephone with small parts hazards and numerous different plastic dolls with impermissible phthalate levels. The violative products imported by BLJ Apparel included childrens products and toys with illegal levels of total lead content, toys intended for children under three years of age that contained small parts and infant rattles that may cause choking or suffocation. All Season Sales violative imports included a childrens kitchen set and police set that both exceeded the lead content limit. The government also alleged that the defendants operations were associated with each other and that the companies share various personal or professional ties that make joining all the conduct into one lawsuit appropriate.NoneNone The case is being handled by Patrick Runkle, trial attorney with the Department of Justices Consumer Protection Branch, and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Central District of California on behalf of the Consumer Product Safety Commission. A complaint is merely a set of allegations that, if the case were to proceed to trial, the government would need to prove by a preponderance of the evidence.