Don Blankenship Sentenced on Federal Conspiracy ChargeActing U.S. Attorney Carol Casto announced that former Massey Energy Chief Executive Officer Don Blankenship was sentenced today to a year in federal prison and ordered to pay a $250,000 fine. Blankenship was sentenced for conspiracy to willfully violate mine health and safety standards after a jury returned a guilty verdict on the federal crime.This sentence is a victory for workers and workplace safety, said Acting U.S. Attorney Casto. It lets companies and their executives know that you cant take chances with the lives of coal miners and get away with it. Putting the former chief executive officer of a major corporation in prison sends a message that violating mine safety laws is a serious crime and those who break those laws will be held accountable. Over the course of the trial, in which jury selection began on Oct. 1, 2015, and the jury returned a guilty verdict on Dec. 3, 2015, the jury heard evidence from 27 witnesses called by the United States. Many of these witnesses were coal miners who worked at the Upper Big Branch (UBB) mine prior to the 2010 explosion and they testified in detail from their firsthand knowledge of the unsafe working conditions at UBB, violations of U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) regulations and organized efforts to obstruct and interfere with MSHA inspectors. The jury heard from Bill Ross, former Manager of Technical Services at Massey, who testified that he warned Blankenship about the companys practice of rampant violations and told the defendant prior to the UBB explosion that Masseys standard tactic of ignoring or defrauding MSHA could not be sustained without the possibility of a serious accident that could have fatalities. The evidence also showed that Blankenship received daily updates on safety violations and helped perpetuate them.Putting profits over the safety of workers is reprehensible, said Acting U.S. Attorney Casto. The jury acknowledged that with the guilty verdict and the sentence imposed today recognizes that disregarding safety laws has real consequences. From the beginning, the objective of this investigation and this prosecution was to not only show that those who violate safety laws will be held responsible, but also to deter these violations in the future to make everyones workplace safer.Todays sentence marks the culmination of a comprehensive, joint investigation that took over five years to complete and resulted in five criminal convictions. said Special Agent in Charge Scott S. Smith of the FBIs Pittsburgh Field Office. Along with dedicated prosecutors in the U.S. Attorneys Office and investigators in U.S. Department of Labors Office of Inspector General, the FBI is committed to holding those who commit crimes by enabling safety violations and who place profits above the value of human life accountable.Donald Blankenships trial and conviction came after an explosion that killed 29 miners at the Upper Big Branch mine, said Special Agent in Charge John Spratley of the U.S. Department of Labors Office of Inspector General, Office of Labor Racketeering and Fraud Investigations Philadelphia Regional Office. His sentencing today reaffirms the responsibility ofcompanyexecutives to ensuretheyadhereto healthand safety standards. The Department of Labors Office of Inspector General will continue to work with theMine Safety and Health Administration and our law enforcement partners to investigate criminal worker safety violations thatpose athreat toAmerican workers.The prosecution was the result of a comprehensive investigation that, including Blankenship, resulted in five criminal convictions. In addition to the convictions of individuals, the outcome of the investigation also included a resolution of over $200 million with Alpha Natural Resources after it acquired Massey. This agreement established a foundation dedicated to mine safety and health research, the first of its kind and set aside nearly $50 million in funding for the foundation. That funding has provided the resources for some of the best and brightest minds in the country to pursue research that will make mines safer all over the world.This matter was investigated by the FBI and the U.S. Department of Labors Office of Inspector General. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Steven R. Ruby, Gregory McVey and Gabriele Wohl, as well as former U.S. Attorney Booth Goodwin, handled the prosecution and tried the case before a federal jury.The prosecution is part of a sustained effort by the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of West Virginia to protect the health and safety of West Virginia workers by vigorously prosecuting workplace safety crimes and holding accountable those responsible for dangerous working conditions.