The Department of Justice today announced a new $7 million award under the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS Office) Collaborative Reform Initiative for Technical Assistance. The award is to the International Association of Chiefs of Police (IACP), a nonprofit membership organization with 30,000 members in more than 150 countries that serves all ranks at the state, local, territorial, tribal, campus, and federal levels. IACP will be partnering with other prominent law enforcement stakeholder associations to create the Collaborative Reform Initiative Technical Assistance Center (CRI-TAC).  This award embodies a field-driven vision for the Collaborative Reform Initiative and incorporates changes that I know are critically important to law enforcement, said Attorney General Jeff Sessions. Todays announcement is part of a course correction that ensures that the Departments Collaborative Reform Initiative will provide technical assistance to law enforcement agencies based on their own needs, not those dictated by the federal government.  For the first time, police chiefs, unions and other law enforcement organizations will come together to provide tailored technical assistance to local policing agencies. While the award will go to IACP, there is a historic and unprecedented coalition represented by the law enforcement associations formally involved in the project:  The IACP and the Fraternal Order of Police, along with six leading law enforcement leadership and labor organizations, will bring together our collective experience, subject matter expertise, and unparalleled reach in the field to build and deliver comprehensive technical assistance, informed by cutting-edge innovation and promising practices, that embraces a collaborative, supportive approach to serving law enforcement and the communities they are sworn to protect, said IACP President Louis M. Dekmar, Chief of the LaGrange, Georgia, Police Department. The FOP is very pleased to partner with the IACP and the U.S. Department of Justice on the Collaborative Reform Initiative, said Chuck Canterbury, National President of the Fraternal Order of Police. Our members have a great deal of knowledge and experience from their own work in our streets and communities. Together, we can put this information and training to work to benefit all of our colleagues around the nation. The Major Cities Chiefs Association has been very engaged in the discussion with the Department of Justice on revamping the entire collaborative reform process, said Montgomery County, Maryland Police Chief Tom Manger. We look forward to a meaningful continued role in implementing this vision alongside colleagues from many other law enforcement groups. None NoneNoneNone