A co-founder of Imperial Integrative Health Research and Development LLC (Imperial) was sentenced to serve 83 months in prison in federal court today for his role in a fraud scheme related to Imperial and its product, OXYwater, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Caroline D. Ciraolo of the Justice Departments Tax Division and U.S. Attorney Carter M. Stewart of the Southern District of Ohio.NoneJacksons business partner, Preston J. Harrison, 43, and Harrisons wife, Lovena Harrison, 42, both of Lewis Center, Ohio, also went to trial in March and were convicted of multiple crimes. Preston Harrison was convicted of conspiracy to defraud the United States, filing a false income tax return, conspiracy to commit wire fraud, conspiracy to commit money laundering and 12 counts of money laundering. Lovena Harrison was convicted of conspiracy to defraud the United States, filing a false income tax return and structuring financial transactions to evade currency reporting requirements.NoneAccording to court testimony, Jackson and Preston Harrison operated Imperial, based in Westerville, Ohio, and developed OXYwater, a beverage that promoters claimed was an all-natural, vitamin-enhanced sports drink that contained added oxygen for improved physical performance.The defendants engaged in a scheme to deceive Imperials investors about Imperial and OXYwaters structure, composition, finances, sales and profits in order to make the company appear to be a lucrative and profitable financial investment. Jackson and Preston Harrison produced and sent false and fraudulent documents intended to deceive investors in order to obtain additional investments in Imperial. They then misappropriated that money for their own personal use, which included purchasing jewelry, a Cadillac Escalade, a BMW vehicle, weapons, clothing, home improvements and a swimming pool.Between August 2010 and spring 2013, Jackson and Preston Harrison misappropriated approximately $2 million of the investors funds. The defendants scheme caused investors to suffer substantial losses when the corporation was forced to declare bankruptcy with no assets. As a result of the defendants conduct, investors lost approximately $9 million.In 2011, Preston Harrison misappropriated approximately $1.1 million from Imperial, which he and Lovena Harrison diverted into an account in the name of a daycare business and used for personal expenses. The Harrisons did not report the money as income on their 2011 income tax return.NoneNone