Former Bullitt County, Kentucky, Sheriffs Deputy Matthew Corder, of Louisville, Kentucky, was sentenced today to 27 months in prison for willfully depriving a county resident of his constitutional rights, announced Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta, head of the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division, and U.S. Attorney John E. Kuhn Jr. of the Western District of Kentucky.The evidence presented at trial established that Corder abused his authority as a sworn law enforcement officer by retaliating against a Bullitt County resident who insulted him. Corder went after the man, unlawfully entered the mans home, tased him in the back, arrested him without probable cause and charged him with crimes that he did not commit, causing the man to sit in jail for weeks and lose his job. The charges that Corder falsely levied against the victim  disorderly conduct, fleeing and evading and resisting arrest  were eventually dismissed.By violating the law and abusing the publics trust, Corder undermined the integrity of the justice system in Bullitt County, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Gupta. Every day, the vast majority of law enforcement officials work tirelessly and honorably to keep communities safe yet those who flout the law do a disservice to their colleagues and their profession. The Justice Department will continue its steadfast efforts to ensure that when officers violate civil rights, we hold them accountable for their misconduct.As they serve and protect, police are entrusted with immense power and authority, said U.S. Attorney Kuhn. And it is absolutely critical that their power and authority be used lawfully and responsibly. Matthew Corder abused that authority, and today he is held to account. His actions are not representative of the good and honorable work that distinguishes our law enforcement agencies in the Western District of Kentucky.Corder was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge David J. Hale of the Western District of Kentucky.This case was investigated by the FBIs Louisville Division, and was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Amanda Gregory of the Western District of Kentucky and Trial Attorney Christopher J. Perras of the Civil Rights Divisions Criminal Section.