  Anthony K. Mastrogiovanni, 30, of Crofton, Md., was sentenced today to serve 25 years in prison for sexually exploiting more than 30 male juveniles  ranging from 9 to 16 years of age  in Maryland and Louisiana to produce child pornography.  The sentence was announced by Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein and Postal Inspector in Charge Gary R. Barksdale of the U.S. Postal Inspection Services Washington Division.None  According to court documents and proceedings, between 2006 and 2012, Mastrogiovanni, a U.S. Navy reservist, met and befriended his victims through his involvement in civic organizations or his military affiliation. Mastrogiovanni captured sexually explicit video of the victims on cameras hidden in his residences in Louisiana and Maryland.  Mastrogiovanni has been in federal custody since he was arrested by inspectors of the U.S. Postal Inspection Service in Las Vegas on July 19, 2012. A search of his Las Vegas hotel room recovered external hard drives containing over 30,000 images of child pornography, including video of his juvenile victims. That same day, federal agents searched Mastrogiovannis apartment in Crofton where they discovered a hidden video camera and video transmitting equipment as well as digital media containing additional child pornography.  As part of his plea agreement, Mastrogiovanni will be required to register as a sex offender in the place where he resides, where he is an employee and where he is a student, under the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act.  The investigation was conducted by the U.S. Postal Inspection Service, with the assistance of the Air Force Office of Special Investigations, Naval Criminal Investigative Service and FBIs Maryland Child Exploitation Task Force. The case was prosecuted by Trial Attorney Keith A. Becker of the Criminal Divisions Child Exploitation and Obscenity Section (CEOS) and Assistant U.S. Attorney P. Michael Cunningham of the District of Maryland.None