None    Abby Beard Hogan, 50, was sentenced by U.S. District Judge M. Casey Rodgers in the Northern District of Florida.  In addition to her prison term, Hogan was sentenced to two years of supervised release.  On March 29, 2012, Hogan pleaded guilty before U.S. Magistrate Judge Gary R. Jones to one count of obstruction of justice.     According to court documents, on the night of Sept. 24, 2009, Abby Hogans husband, James Hogan, an employee at the U.S. Consulate in Curacao, a Caribbean island that was part of the Netherlands Antilles, left his home on foot and subsequently disappeared.  In the early hours of Sept. 25, 2009, James Hogan called his wife and spoke for approximately three minutes.  The next day, when James Hogan failed to report to work, the U.S. government and Dutch and Antillean law enforcement launched an island-wide search and opened an investigation into Hogans disappearance.  On Sept. 25, 2009, a diver located James Hogans blood-stained clothing on a local beach. None     According to court documents, after law enforcement interviews, between Sept. 30, 2009, and Jan. 15, 2010, Abby Hogan deleted more than 300 emails from her email account.  These emails contained information that Abby Hogan knew was relevant to specific questions she had been asked by U.S. law enforcement.  The emails also contained information that she had either previously misrepresented or knowingly omitted during her interviews with law enforcement, including that she was engaged in an extramarital affair; the night James Hogan disappeared, the couple had argued, and he left the house angry and upset; and that she did not want law enforcement to know what had happened that evening.       The case was prosecuted by Senior Trial Attorney Teresa Wallbaum of the Criminal Divisions Human Rights and Special Prosecutions Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Frank Williams for the Northern District of Florida.  The Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs provided assistance.  The case was investigated by DSS and the FBIs Miami Field Office and Legal Attach Office in Bridgetown, Barbados.  Assistance was also provided by Curacao law enforcement authorities. 