None None Since 2008, WRPS has received millions of dollars from a prime contract with DOE to perform environmental cleanup and maintenance efforts at an area of DOEs Hanford Nuclear Site known as the Tank Farms. The Tank Farms is a large area of the Hanford Site consisting of underground storage tanks that contain radioactive and hazardous waste from nuclear weapons production. The government alleged that, upon being awarded the Tank Farms Contract in October 2008, WRPS was advised by law enforcement of specific concerns about systemic timecard fraud being committed by the previous contractor at the Tank Farms, many of whose employees and procedures were retained by WRPS. WRPS allegedly made no actual changes to the timekeeping procedures at the Tank Farms for nearly five years and did not take steps, until after July 2013, to curtail the prior fraudulent practices. As a result, the government alleged that WRPS knowingly charged DOE for overtime for busy work or for work that was not actually performed and premium emergency call-in pay that was not authorized by the Tank Farms Contract.  The government also alleged that WRPS charged the government for auditing work that was not performed. WRPS allegedly installed as the head of the contractually required Internal Audit Department for the first three years of the Tank Farms contract its own general counsel, who allegedly had no auditing experience and failed to provide any meaningful oversight of the Audit Department. The government alleged that this knowing violation of an important safeguard in the contract enabled the extensive timecard fraud. None The Department of Energy Office of Inspector General is committed to ensuring the integrity of Departmental contracts and financial expenditures, said Acting Inspector General April G. Stephenson. We will continue to investigate allegations of fraudulent diversion of tax dollars throughout DOE programs. This settlement is a result of our staffs dedicated work to ensure public funds are used for the mission-related purposes for which they are intended. We appreciate the support of Department of Justice attorneys in these matters. The settlement was the result of a coordinated effort by the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of Washington, the Civil Divisions Commercial Litigation Branch and the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of the Inspector General. The claims resolved by the settlement are allegations only; there has been no determination of liability.  