A Brooklyn, New York, tax return preparer was sentenced to 36 months in prison today following her guilty plea on Sept. 21, 2015, to two counts of aiding and assisting in the preparation of false income tax returns, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Caroline D. Ciraolo of the Justice Departments Tax Division.The Tax Division remains committed to pursuing and prosecuting tax return preparers who knowingly prepare false tax returns for their clients, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Ciraolo. Fraudulent preparers undermine the integrity of our tax system. Todays sentence serves as a reminder to all tax return preparers that if you engage in such criminal conduct it will result in prosecution and incarceration.Awilda Rosario, 40, owned and operated a tax preparation business in Brooklyn called Edujas Multiservices Corporation. Rosario prepared false individual income tax returns for clients for tax years 2008 through 2013. She attached false schedules that reported business losses the taxpayers did not incur and attached schedules that reported inflated or fictitious deductions. She also attached forms claiming fictitious education and fuel tax credits that the taxpayers were not entitled to receive.After the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) revoked the Electronic Filing Identification Number (EFIN) for Edujas Multiservices Corporation, Rosario obtained at least two different EFINs and continued to prepare and submit false tax returns for her clients that listed a different paid tax return preparer and tax preparer firm.In addition to the prison term, U.S. District Judge Nicholas G. Garaufis of the Eastern District of New York ordered Rosario to serve one year of supervised release and pay $607,904 in restitution to the IRS.Acting Assistant Attorney General Ciraolo thanked special agents of IRS-Criminal Investigation, who investigated the case, and Assistant Chief Jorge Almonte and Trial Attorney Shawn T. Noud of the Justice Departments Tax Division, who prosecuted the case.None