The Department of Justice, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) today announced the launch of a federal Domestic Violence and Housing Technical Assistance Consortium to better address the critical housing needs of victims of domestic violence and their children. The three federal agencies are awarding a total of $2.3 million in grant funding to four organizations who will form this national consortium in order to foster increased collaboration among domestic violence and homeless service providers and provide national training, technical assistance and resource development on domestic violence and housing.The limited availability of shelters and the difficulties in accessing safe, affordable housing options too often leave domestic violence survivors homeless, or send them back to abusive partners and unsafe homes, said Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch. The Department of Justice is committed to providing trauma-informed guidance, resources and training across the country to combat this critical challenge, and I am proud to stand with my federal partners as we work to establish a comprehensive federal response to address the unique housing needs and safety concerns of domestic violence survivors.Escaping domestic violence should not increase a persons chances of becoming homeless, said HUD Secretary Julin Castro. Unfortunately that is too often the case for survivors and their children, which is why Im proud to join this interagency effort to develop more comprehensive efforts to protect and serve survivors of domestic violence.According to the National Intimate Partner and Sexual Violence Survey (NISVS) report, nearly 10 million people in the U.S. experienced physical violence by an intimate partner in 2010. According to the U.S. Conference of Mayors, in 2008, 28 percent of U.S. families were homeless because of domestic violence and 39 percent of U.S. cities cited domestic violence as the primary cause of family homelessness. The U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness (USICH) has established the goal of preventing and ending homelessness among families, youth, and children by 2020.Domestic violence is a primary cause of family homelessness because many victims leave their homes to pursue safety, said Commissioner Rafael Lpez of HHS Administration on Children, Youth and Families. Victims of domestic violence need housing options that meet their immediate and long-term needs. This interagency consortium will help us marshal federal resources to address domestic violence.As a result of this interagency collaboration, grant funds are being provided to the following organizations:District Alliance for Safe Housing (Washington, D.C.)National Network to End Domestic Violence (Washington, D.C.)National Resource Center for Domestic Violence (Harrisburg, Pennsylvania):Training Development Associates (Laurinburg, North Carolina)/Collaborative Solutions, Inc. (Birmingham, Alabama)The four grant recipients will form the Domestic Violence and Housing Technical Assistance Consortium and will work with domestic violence providers and homeless service providers nationwide to improve policies, identify promising practices and strengthen collaborations necessary to improve housing options for survivors of domestic violence and their children in order to enhance safety, stability, and well-being. The Department of Justices Office for Victims of Crime and Office on Violence Against Women; HUDs Office of Special Needs Assistance Programs and HHSs Administration for Children and Families, Family and Youth Services Bureau, Division of Family Violence Prevention and Services have worked together to increase capacity, resources and guidance to adequately address the housing needs of domestic violence survivors and their children, as leading members of the Domestic Violence Committee of the USICH.About the Department of Justices Office on Violence Against WomenNoneAbout the Department of Justices Office for Victims of CrimeNoneAbout the Department of Housing and Urban Developments Office of Special Needs Assistance ProgramsNoneAbout the Department of Health and Human Services Family Violence Prevention and Services ProgramNone