Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch announced today the appointment of U.S. Attorney Dana J. Boente of the Eastern District of Virginia to the Attorney Generals Advisory Committee (AGAC), effective Feb. 1, 2016.Dana Boente embodies the vision and leadership we need to empower our communities and strengthen our nation, and I am pleased to welcome him to the Attorney Generals Advisory Committee, said Attorney General Lynch. Throughout his career  as a Trial Attorney in the Department of Justices Tax Division, as a federal prosecutor dedicated to rooting out fraud, and as a U.S. Attorney in Louisiana and Virginia  he has demonstrated his perseverance, his dedication and his wisdom. I have no doubt that he will be an outstanding addition to the Committee, and I look forward to receiving the benefit of his experience as we continue to work towards a safer, more just future for all Americans.Boente will fill the seat vacated by former U.S. Attorney Booth Goodwin of the Southern District of West Virginia, who resigned on Dec. 31, 2015.Boente was appointed by President Barack Obama and confirmed by the Senate on Dec. 15, 2015 as the U.S. Attorney of the Eastern District of Virginia (EDVA). Boente is a 31-year veteran of the Department of Justice, joining the department in 1984 at the conclusion of a clerkship with a U.S. District Court Judge. From 1984 to 1999, Boente was a Trial Attorney with the departments Tax Division. In January 2000, Boente became an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the Fraud Unit in EDVA. In August 2005, Boente was detailed back to the Tax Division to serve as the Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General. He returned to EDVA in May 2007, when he was selected as the First Assistant U.S. Attorney. In December 2012, Boente went to serve as the U.S. Attorney of the Eastern District of Louisiana. He returned to the U.S. Attorneys Office in EDVA in September 2013.The AGAC was created in 1973 to serve as the voice of the U.S. Attorneys and to advise the Attorney General on policy, management and operational issues impacting the U.S. Attorneys Offices.