  WASHINGTON  Eighty-nine law enforcement officers and 44 others in Puerto Rico have been charged in 26 indictments unsealed today and returned by a grand jury in San Juan, Puerto Rico, during the month of September 2010, Attorney General Eric Holder and U.S. Attorney Rosa Emilia Rodrguez-Vlez of the District of Puerto Rico announced today.  The defendants face charges ranging from conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute more than five kilograms of cocaine, attempt to possess with intent to distribute more than five kilograms of cocaine, and use of a firearm during the commission of a drug trafficking offense. The offenses charged cover a period from in or about July 26, 2008 until Sept. 21, 2010.  The arrests today are the result of Operation Guard Shack, the largest police corruption investigation in the history of the FBI. Close to 750 FBI agents were flown in to Puerto Rico from across the country to assist in the arrests early this morning. Currently 129 individuals are in custody and four subjects remain at-large.   "The Justice Departments commitment to rooting out and eradicating alleged corruption in our law enforcement ranks has never been stronger," said Attorney General Eric Holder. "This department has one message for anyone willing to abuse the public trust for personal gain: you will be caught, you will be stopped and you will be punished."  The indictments unsealed today are the result of 125 undercover drug transactions conducted by the FBI in several locations in Puerto Rico, from July 2008 until September 2010. The defendants participation in the drug transactions consisted of providing armed protection to a drug dealer during the sale of multi-kilogram quantities of cocaine. In exchange for their security services during the undercover drug transactions, the defendants, a majority of whom are law enforcement officers, received payments ranging from $500 to $4,500 per transaction.None  "These indictments demonstrate the commitment of the Department of Justice and the U.S. Attorneys Office in Puerto Rico to eradicate corruption in our law enforcement ranks. We cannot help but be appalled at the criminal conduct charged today against those who have sworn to serve and protect the citizens of Puerto Rico. The people of Puerto Rico deserve and expect better, and today we send a clear message. We will continue working side by side with the many honest members of Puerto Ricos law enforcement agencies in our fight against drug trafficking, violent crime and corruption in the island," said U.S. Attorney Rodrguez-Vlez.  "Public corruption does not just strike at the heart of good government. It also jeopardizes the security of our communities and our nation," said FBI Executive Assistant Director Shawn Henry, Criminal, Cyber, Response and Services Branch. "It erodes public confidence and undermines the strength of our democracy. The FBI is fully committed to pursuing allegations of public corruption and we will work closely with the Department of Justice to bring charges when necessary."None   The16 indicted defendants who are municipal police officers are:Andy Alejandrino Snchez; Arcadio Hernndez-Soto; Raquel Delgado Marrero; ngel L. Rivera Claudio; Joel Omar Aldarondo-Montalvo; Neftali Valentin-Fred; Jos O. Maldonado Garca; Luis Joel Avils Rullan; Mark Anthony Ortiz; Luis Romn Herrera; Gabriel Lozada Torres; Onel Saavedra Gonzlez; Rose M. Serrano Vargas; Wilfredo Gonzlez Lagares; Francisco J. Riesta Natal; and Jose Prez Prez.  The 12 indicted defendants who are officers in the Puerto Rico Corrections Department are:Christian Daz Maldonado; Olvin Garca Huertas; Jos L. Romn Mndez; Ruben Maldonado Torres; Radams Cortez Ozoa; Carlos M. Rosado Lpez; Omar Torres Ruperto; Carlos M. Linares Vega; Bernis Gonzlez Miranda; Jos R. Bermdez Quiones; Joel Daz Nieves; and Bernardo Cruz Trujillo.  The remaining 44defendants are: Carlos Figueroa Cruz; Anthony Cruz; Miguel Snchez Romn (U.S. Army, former San Juan Municipal); Rodolfo E. Torres Negrn; Melquiades lvarez Mendoza; Juan Carlos Gonzlez Ortiz; Nelmic De La Cruz Raposo; Jess LNU; Axel Gonzlez Terron; Juan Cruz Tapia (Social Security Office); Edgar Rafael Rivera De Jess (retired PRPD); Idanis Garca Morales (child support examiner); Christian Sotomayor Filomeno; Omar Cajigas; Abimael Hernndez Rivera; Pedro Gonzlez-Cruz; Rubin A. Maisonet De Jess;Wayne Cedeo Amador; Josu Ramrez Gonzlez; Oscar E. Ramos Rodrguez; Antonio L. Romn Reyes; Yancy Toro Espiet; Alex O. Cordero Cortez, aka "Omar De La Cruz;" Luis Vlez-Concepcin; Billy Hernndez; Edward Quiones (former PRPD); Christian A. Nez-Revern, aka "Kelvin Nuez," Roberto Molina (retired PRPD); Francisco Manzano Lpez (former PRPD); Abraham Snchez (National Guard); Hector Hernndez-Aldarondo; Rafael E. Prez Rivera; Sgt. Abraham Gonzlez Snchez (National Guard); Wendell Rivera Ruperto, aka "Arsenio Rivera," (former PR Department of Corrections); David Maldonado (National Guard); Juan C. Ramos-Vargas, aka "Joseph Avils;" Frederick Santos Ortiz, aka "Roberto Ortega;" Yoana Sierra Padilla (former PRPD); Julio Gmez-Llorns; Ricardo Amaro-Santiago; Eliezer Pagn Medina; and Sgt.  If convicted the defendants are facing sentences ranging from 10 years, up to life in prison.  This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Courtney Coker and Jacqueline Novas. The case is being investigated by the FBI San Juan Field Office.  An indictment is a formal accusation of criminal conduct, not evidence. A defendant is presumed innocent unless and until convicted through due process of law.