WASHINGTON  The Justice Department today announced an agreement with Upshur County, Texas, to improve access to all aspects of civic life for people with disabilities. The agreement was reached under Project Civic Access (PCA), the departments wide-ranging initiative to ensure that cities, towns and counties throughout the country comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). Access to civic life is a fundamental part of American society, and people with disabilities must have the opportunity to participate in local government programs, services and activities on an equal basis with their neighbors, said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division . Upshur County has made an important commitment to achieving ADA compliance, and this agreement serves as a roadmap to that important end. I commend Upshur County officials for working with the Justice Department to provide equal access to all of its programs, services, and activities. The ability of all citizens to enter a courthouse or a polling place to vote is central to our democracy, said John M. Bales, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Texas. Our office, in conjunction with the Civil Rights Division, will continue to work with Upshur County and other counties to make all public facilities in the Eastern District fully accessible. As part of the PCA initiative, Justice Department investigators, attorneys and architects survey state and local government facilities, services and programs in communities across the country to identify the modifications needed for compliance with ADA requirements. Based on these surveys, agreements are tailored to address the steps each community must take to improve access. This agreement is the 196th under the PCA initiative. Under the agreement announced today, Upshur County will take important steps to improve access to county programs for individuals with disabilities, such as: Todays agreement was reached under Title II of the ADA, which prohibits discrimination against people with disabilities by state and local governments. The agreement will remain in effect for three years from Nov. 22, 2011, or until all actions required by the agreement have been completed, whichever is later. The department will actively monitor compliance with the agreement until all required actions have been completed. None