  Rodolfo Rodriguez Cabrera, 43, a Cuban national, and Henry Mantilla, 35, of Cape Coral, Fla., have been charged in a scheme to produce and sell counterfeit International Game Technology (IGT)-brand video gaming machines, commonly known as slot machines, and counterfeit IGT computer programs.  Cabrera was arrested June 8, 2009, in Riga, Latvia, based on the indictment. Mantilla is scheduled to appear based on a summons in U.S. District Court for the District of Nevada on July 2, 2009, before U.S. Magistrate Judge Robert J. Johnston.  According to the indictment, returned on April 22, 2009, and unsealed yesterday, Cabrera owned and operated a company called FE Electronic in Riga, Latvia, and Mantilla owned and operated a company named Southeast Gaming Inc., in Cape Coral, Fla. The indictment alleges that between August 2007 and April 15, 2009, Cabrera and Mantilla conspired to make unauthorized copies of IGT video gaming machine computer programs, place counterfeit labels bearing IGTs registered trademark on the computer programs, install the counterfeit computer programs in IGT gaming machine cabinets and then sell the counterfeit computer programs and gaming machines through their respective companies, all without the permission of the trademark and copyright owner, IGT.  Cabrera and Mantilla are charged in the indictment with one count of conspiracy, two counts of trafficking in counterfeit goods, two counts of trafficking in counterfeit labels and two counts of criminal copyright infringement. If convicted of all charges, each defendant faces a maximum of up to 45 years in prison and $5.25 million in fines. The indictment also contains 13 forfeiture allegations that require the defendants, if convicted, to forfeit any and all counterfeit items and to forfeit up to $5 million in proceeds from their alleged criminal activity.  The case is being investigated by the FBI and prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael Chu of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Nevada and Trial Attorney Thomas S. Dougherty of the Criminal Divisions Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section (CCIPS). Significant assistance has been provided by the Central Criminal Police Department of the Latvian Ministry of Interior; Latvias Office of the Prosecutor General, International Cooperation Division; and Senior Trial Attorney Deborah Gaynus of the Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs. CCIPS Trial Attorney John Zacharia also assisted with the prosecution. IGT also provided assistance in this matter.  An indictment is merely a formal charge by the grand jury. Each defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty in a court of law.None