An Austin, Texas, businessman was indicted by a federal grand jury for five counts of filing false tax returns and one count of corruptly endeavoring to obstruct and impede the due administration of the internal revenue laws, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Caroline D. Ciraolo of the Justice Departments Tax Division.According to the allegations in the superseding indictment, Victor Antolik owned and operated a commercial janitorial business in Austin, San Antonio and Houston, Texas, for which he used a variety of business names, including Diversified Building Services Inc., DBS Services Inc., Partners in Cleaning, PIC Building Services and BSI Industries. Antolik also earned income as a real estate agent, real estate broker and property manager. Antolik earned a portion of his real estate income through his companies SGN Realty Inc. and Signature Realty Services. For the tax years 2004, 2007 and 2008, Antolik submitted to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) a total of four false individual income tax returns on which he underreported his income. In addition, between 1998 and 2014, Antolik attempted to obstruct the IRS by, among other things, attaching altered Forms W-2 and 1099 to his tax returns, providing false information to his accountants that was used to prepare both corporate and individual income tax returns on his behalf, and using nominees to conceal income and assets.If convicted, for each count, Antolik faces a statutory maximum sentence of three years in prison, a maximum fine of $250,000 and restitution to the IRS.An indictment is not a finding of guilt. Individuals charged in indictments are presumed innocent until proven guiltly beyond a reasonable doubt.Acting Assistant Attorney General Ciraolo thanked agents of the IRS-Criminal Investigation, who are investigating the case and Tax Division Trial Attorneys Robert A. Kemins and David Zisserson, who are prosecuting the case. Acting Assistant Attorney General Ciraolo also thanked the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Western District of Texas for their substantial assistance.None