Numerous Alleged Co-Conspirators Previously Convicted at Trial and Pleaded Guilty in MinnesotaMohamed Amiin Ali Roble, 20, formerly of Minneapolis, was charged today by criminal complaint with providing and conspiring to provide material support to the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL).The charges were announced by Assistant Attorney General for National Security John P. Carlin, U.S. Attorney Andrew M. Luger of the District of Minnesota and Special Agent in Charge Richard T. Thornton of the FBIs Minneapolis Division.According to the complaint and documents filed in court, on Oct. 4, 2014, Roble flew to China with a family member. In November 2014, four of Robles associates in Minnesota attempted to travel from Minnesota to Syria to join ISIL, via JFK International Airport in New York. The four defendants were stopped by federal law enforcement agents at JFK and were prevented from flying from New York to various destinations in Europe. Also in November 2014, Roble bought airplane tickets and flew to Istanbul, but returned to China shortly thereafter.On Dec. 27, 2014, Roble again traveled to Istanbul and, according to the complaint, subsequently made his way into Syria and joined ISIL.A criminal complaint is merely an allegation, and the defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.This case is the result of an investigation conducted by members of the FBI-led Joint Terrorism Task Force (JTTF). The Minnesota JTTF includes members from the U.S. Marshals Service; Bloomington, Minnesota, Police Department; Ramsey County, Minnesota, Sheriffs Office; Hennepin County, Minnesota, Sheriffs Office, Federal Air Marshals Service; Customs and Border Patrol; Department of Homeland Security; Minneapolis Police Department; the Airport Police; Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation; and the FBI. The National Security Divisions Counterterrorism Section and the U.S. Attorneys Office of the District of Minnesota are prosecuting the case.