  Owners of two home health agencies, a doctor, and a hospital  employee who sold patient information were all sentenced today for their roles  in an $3 million Medicare fraud scheme.   Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Cardwell of the Justice  Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Kenneth Magidson for the Southern  District of Texas, Special Agent in Charge Stephen L. Morris of the FBIs  Houston Field Office, Special Agent in Charge Mike Fields of the Dallas Regional  Office of HHSs Office of the Inspector General (HHS-OIG), and the Texas  Attorney Generals Medicaid Fraud Control Unit (MFCU) made the announcement.   Valnita Turner, 48, Valdie Jackson, 43, Dr. Nick Patzakis, 86,  and Jarvis Thomas, 40, were all sentenced today by U.S. District Judge Gray  Miller in the Southern District of Texas.   On October 7, 2013, Valnita Turner, owner of Houston  Compassionate Care, Inc., was convicted of one count of conspiracy to commit  health care fraud and four counts of health care fraud.   According to court documents, Turner and  Valdie Jackson, owner of Jackson Home Healthcare, Inc., purchased stolen patient  information from Jarvis Thomas, a hospital administrative employee.   Turner and Jackson used the stolen patient  information to submit fraudulent claims to Medicare for home health services  purportedly provided by three home health agencies operating in the Houston  area, Houston Compassionate Care, Inc., Jackson Home Healthcare, Inc., and  Prestige Health Services, Inc..   Turner  and Jackson also fraudulently billed Medicare for medically unnecessary home  health services that were never ordered by a doctor and relied on doctors,  including Dr. Nick Patzakis, to falsely sign medical documents.   Valnita Turner was sentenced to serve 151 months in prison.    In addition to her prison term, Turner  was sentenced to three years of supervised release and was ordered to pay  $3,011,899.09 in restitution, jointly and severally with her co-defendants.   Valdie Jackson pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit health  care fraud on September 13, 2013.  Jackson was sentenced to serve 12 months and  one day in prison.   In addition to his  prison term, Jackson was sentenced to three years of supervised release and was  ordered to pay $1,551,482.21 in restitution, jointly and severally with his  co-defendants.   Dr. Nick Patzakis pleaded guilty to one count of false  statements relating to health care matters on September 20, 2013.  Dr. Patzakis was sentenced to time served and  three years of supervised release. In addition, Dr. Patzakis was ordered to pay  $95,947.57 in restitution, jointly and severally with his co-defendants.   Jarvis Thomas pleaded guilty to conspiracy to disclose  individually identifiable health information on September 13, 2013.  Thomas was sentenced to time served and three  years of supervised release. Additionally, Thomas was ordered to pay  $1,348,644.75 in restitution, jointly and severally with his co-defendants.   The case was prosecuted by Assistant Chief Robert Zink and Trial  Attorneys Christopher Cestaro and Ashlee Caligone McFarlane of the Criminal  Divisions Fraud Section.  The case was  investigated by the FBI, HHS-OIG and MFCU and was brought as part of the  Medicare Fraud Strike Force, supervised by the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section  and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of Texas.   Since its  inception in March 2007, the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, now operating in nine  cities across the country, has charged more than 1,900 defendants who have  collectively billed the Medicare program for more than $6 billion.  In addition, HHSs Centers for Medicare &  Medicaid Services, working in conjunction with HHS-OIG, is taking steps to  increase accountability and decrease the presence of fraudulent providers. None 