Proposed Settlement Preserves Competition for Broadcast Television AdvertisersThe Department of Justices Antitrust Division filed a civil antitrust lawsuit today in the U.S. District Court of the District of Columbia challenging Gray Television, Inc.s proposed acquisition of Schurz Communication, Inc., and simultaneously filed a proposed settlement that would resolve the competitive harm alleged in the lawsuit.The division alleged that the proposed transaction would have eliminated head-to-head competition between Grays and Schurzs television stations for the business of local and national advertisers on television stations in South Bend, Indiana, and Wichita, Kansas. The division determined that elimination of this competition would have resulted in higher prices and lower quality services to broadcast television spot advertisers in these markets. The proposed settlement  which must be approved by the court  requires Gray to divest two television stations  the CBS-affiliated WSBT-TV in South Bend and the ABC-affiliated KAKE-TV in Wichita  to department-approved buyers.We remain vigilant in protecting competition in local television markets, said Assistant Attorney Bill Baer of the Justice Departments Antitrust Division. Combining these stations under common ownership would have made it more costly for advertisers to communicate with consumers. The antitrust laws render those transactions unlawful.Gray is incorporated in the state of Georgia, with its headquarters in Atlanta. Schurz is a privately owned company, with its headquarters in Mishawaka, Indiana. Both Gray and Schurz operate broadcast television stations in various metropolitan areas throughout the United States.As required by the Tunney Act, the proposed settlement, along with the departments competitive impact statement, will be published in the Federal Register. Any person may submit written comments concerning the proposed settlement during a 60-day comment period to David Kully, Chief, Litigation III Section, Antitrust Division, U.S. Department of Justice, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Fourth Floor, Washington, D.C. 20530. At the conclusion of the 60-day comment period, the court may enter the final judgment upon a finding that it serves the public interest.NoneNoneNoneNoneNone