The United States has reached a landmark global settlement with Education Management Corp. (EDMC), the second-largest for-profit education company in the country, the Department of Justice announced today. The $95.5 million settlement resolves allegations that EDMC violated federal and state False Claims Act (FCA) provisions by falsely certifying that it was in compliance with Title IV of the Higher Education Act (HEA) and parallel state statutes.This historic resolution exemplifies the Justice Departments deep commitment to protecting precious public resources; to defending American consumers; and to standing up for those who are vulnerable to mistreatment, abuse, and exploitation, said Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch. Operating essentially as a recruitment mill, EDMCs actions were not only a violation of federal law but also a violation of the trust placed in them by their students - including veterans and working parents - all at taxpayer expense. In the days ahead, we will continue working with our invaluable partners at the U.S. Department of Education, through initiatives like the inter-agency task force on for-profit education, to ensure that our nations aspiring learners are finding and gaining access to educational opportunities that are right for them.The primary allegation was that EDMC unlawfully recruited students, in contravention of the HEAs Incentive Compensation Ban (ICB), by running a high pressure boiler room where admissions personnel were paid based purely on the number of students they enrolled. In addition to resolving these and other FCA claims, the global settlement also encompasses an investigation by a consortium of state Attorneys General, of consumer-fraud allegations involving deceptive and misleading recruiting practices.Now more than ever, a college degree is the best path to the middle class, but that path has to be safe for students, said U.S. Education Secretary Arne Duncan. This settlement should be a warning to other career colleges out there: We will not stand by while you profit illegally off of students and taxpayers. The federal government will continue to work tirelessly with state attorneys general to ensure that all colleges follow the law.EDMC, which is headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, operates nationwide under four post-secondary school brands: the Art Institutes, South University, Argosy University and Brown-Mackie College. Student enrollment across EDMCs school brands exceeds 100,000 students.Companies cannot enrich their corporate coffers at the expense of students seeking a quality education, or on the backs of taxpayers who are funding our critical financial aid programs, said U.S. Attorney David J. Hickton of the Western District of Pennsylvania. Todays global settlement sends an unmistakable message to all for-profit education companies: the United States will aggressively ferret out fraud and protect innocent students and taxpayer dollars from this kind of egregious abuse.NoneNoneImproper incentives to admissions recruiters result in harm to students and financial losses to the taxpayers, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer, head of the Justice Departments Civil Division. This settlement shows that by partnering productively, the federal government and the states Attorneys General can put a stop to this type of behavior.The global settlement with EDMC also resolves three additional federal FCA lawsuits in which the government did not intervene, all involving various violations of Title IV of the HEA by EDMC.Finally, the global settlement resolves a consumer fraud investigation by a consortium of 40 state Attorneys General, into EDMCs deceptive and misleading recruiting practices. The consumer fraud settlement requires EDMC to undertake various compliance obligations, including detailed disclosure obligations to students; prohibitions on deceptive or misleading recruiting practices and oversight by an administrator to ensure compliance.This civil enforcement action holds EDMC accountable for what we allege were unfair and deceptive recruitment and enrollment practices, said Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller. EDMCs practices were unfair to our states students, and they were also unfair to our nations taxpayers who backed many of these federal student loans that were destined to fail. This is a rigorous agreement that not only provides some relief to a large number of former students through loan forgiveness, but helps ensure that the company will make substantial changes to its business practices for future students.NoneThe FCA lawsuits were handled by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Michael A. Comber, Christy C. Wiegand, Paul E. Skirtich and Colin J. Callahan of the U.S. Attorneys Office of the Western District of Pennsylvania, Assistant U.S. Attorney Christopher Sabis of the U.S. Attorneys Office of the Middle District of Tennessee, and Trial Attorney Jay D. Majors of the Commercial Litigation Branch of the Civil Division of the Department of Justice, with assistance from the U.S. Department of Educations Office of General Counsel and Office of Inspector General.None