NoneThe Fund was established by legislation in 2015 and is administered by the Money Laundering and Asset Recovery Section in the Criminal Division. Congress authorized the department to deposit certain forfeiture proceeds, penalties and fines into the Fund if they come from civil and criminal matters involving prohibited transactions with state sponsors of terrorism. Originally, Congress provided $1.025 billion for payments to victims, and recent Justice Department prosecutions and U.S. government enforcement actions have increased the total available for initial payments to more than $1.1 billion.On May 17, 2016, the Attorney General appointed Kenneth R. Feinberg, Esq., as the Special Master to administer the Fund with the assistance of the Money Laundering and Asset Recovery Section, Criminal Division. The Special Master rendered 2,332 eligibility decisions by December 2016, and in February 2017, the department informed all eligible claimants of their initial payment amounts. The Criminal Division aggressively prosecutes terrorist financiers and others who abuse the U.S. financial system to commit crimes, and uses all available tools, including civil and criminal forfeiture, to seize their assets and illicit funds, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Blanco. Through this program, we will continue to be resolute in our commitment to victims of state sponsored terrorism and aggressively search for illicit funds and assets to compensate them for their losses. I am so proud of the wonderful work done by the Criminal Division and Special Master to vindicate the rights of these victims.According to the Special Master, [s]ince the Acts enactment in December 2015, the Department of Justice team administering the Fund has been extremely busy. The team worked expeditiously to set up the compensation program by publishing its Federal Register notice and establishing a claims processing system, adjudicating all claims and issuing eligibility decisions and award payments to innocent victims of state-sponsored terrorism who have been waiting a long time for justice. I am very pleased with the accomplishments of the entire Fund team, who undertook their work in meeting statutory deadlines with deep commitment and compassion for those whose lives were forever changed by events of international terrorism. With this strong foundation, I know the Fund team will continue to work hard and carry out its mission in the upcoming years. NoneNone