  Two members of the Latin Kings street gang were sentenced today in Hammond, Ind., federal court for racketeering conspiracy, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney David Capp of the Northern District of Indiana.  Martin Anaya, aka Lefty, 42, of Chicago, was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge Rudy Lozano to 360 months in prison after a jury returned a guilty verdict on Sept. 26, 2012, to racketeering and drug conspiracies.  Jason Ortiz, aka Creeper 29, of Chicago, was sentenced today to serve 300 months in prison after pleading guilty on July 30, 2010, to racketeering conspiracy by U.S. District Judge Lozano.  According to the third superseding indictment filed in this case, the Latin Kings is a nationwide gang that originated in Chicago and has branched out throughout the United States. The Latin Kings is a well-organized street gang that has specific leadership and is composed of regions that include multiple chapters. The third superseding indictment charges that the Latin Kings were responsible for more than 20 murders.  Also according to the third superseding indictment, the Latin Kings enforces its rules and promotes discipline among its members, prospects and associates through murder, attempted murder, conspiracy to murder, assault and threats against those who violate the rules or pose a threat to the Latin Kings. Members are required to follow the orders of higher-ranking members, including taking on assignments often referred to as missions.  During Anayas trial, the government presented evidence of several murders committed by the members of the Latin Kings. In addition, cooperating defendants testified that the Latin Kings were responsible for more than 150 kilograms of cocaine and 1,000 kilograms of marijuana over the course of the racketeering conspiracy.  Evidence of one the murders presented at trial involved the shooting death of Christina Campos that occurred at 107th block of Hoxie Avenue, Chicago, on April 22, 2009. Witnesses testified that Anaya, Ortiz, Brandon Clay, a defendant previously sentenced to 360 months in this case, and a fourth Latin King member drove across the south side of Chicago to a Latin Counts neighborhood. The Latin Kings confronted Campos and two other Latin Count members as they were walking to their car. Ultimately, gun shots were fired resulting in Campos being fatally shot. At the trial, the jury acquitted Anaya on the charges related to Campos murder. Nevertheless, during the sentencing hearing, Judge Lozano found Anaya responsible for Campos death.  During his guilty plea proceeding, Ortiz acknowledged that on Feb. 25, 2007, he, along with four other defendants, rode on a mission from Illinois to Griffith, Ind. While armed with three firearms, they were ordered to ambush  that is shoot to kill  rival gang members who were attending a party. Once two Latin Dragon members James Walsh, aka Jim Boy and Gonzalo Diaz, aka Chalo, left the party, the Latin Kings, including Ortiz, rode up in a vehicle and two of Ortizs co-defendants got of the vehicle and shot and killed Walsh and Diaz.None  The case is being prosecuted by Joseph A. Cooley of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section and David J. Nozick of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Northern District of Indiana. Andrew Porter of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Northern District of Illinois provided significant assistance.  An indictment is not evidence of guilt. Those charged in the indictment are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.