PAE Government Services Inc. (PAE) and RM Asia (HK) Limited (RM Asia) have agreed to pay the United States $1.45 million to resolve allegations that they engaged in a bid-rigging scheme that resulted in false claims for payment under a U.S. Army contract for services in Afghanistan, the Justice Department announced today. PAE, headquartered in Arlington, Virginia, provides integrated global mission services. RM Asia, located in Hong Kong, provides motor vehicle parts and supplies.Our national security and those of our allies depend on quality goods and services delivered at a fair price, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer, head of the Justice Departments Civil Division. Todays settlement demonstrates our continuing vigilance to ensure that those doing business with the government do not engage in bidrigging or other anticompetitive conduct.In 2007, the Army awarded PAE a contract to provide vehicle maintenance capabilities and training services for the Afghanistan National Army at multiple sites across Afghanistan. PAE partnered with RM Asia to supply and warehouse vehicle parts. The government alleged that former managers of PAE and RM Asia funneled subcontracts paid for by the government to companies owned by the former managers and their relatives by using confidential bid information to ensure that their companies would beat out other, honest competitors.NoneThis resolution, following criminal charges that were also brought against the individuals involved, represents the governments efforts to use all of the criminal and civil tools available to the government to remedy fraudulent conduct, said U.S. Attorney Dana J. Boente of the Eastern District of Virginia.NoneThis case was handled by the Civil Divisions Commercial Litigation Branch, the U.S. Attorneys Office of the Eastern District of Virginia, the Defense Criminal Investigative Service, the U.S. Department of the Army Criminal Investigation Command-Major Procurement Fraud Unit and the Defense Contract Audit Agency.None