None None None   The defendants corrupted the competitive bidding process and defrauded municipalities across the country for years, said Deputy Assistant Attorney General Scott D. Hammond of the Antitrust Division.Through corruption and fraud, they cheated cities and towns out of money for important public works projects.Todays convictions reflect our determination to preserve fairness and competition in the financial services market. None None   Fundamentally, this case is about fraud in the investment of public money, said Janice K. Fedarcyk, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI in New York.The actions of the defendants denied public entities the benefits of true competitive bidding, and artificially depressed the yield on invested public funds.   Todays convictions are an important step forward in the coordinated effort by theIRS and the Department of Justice to aggressively rid the municipal bond industry of unfair and corrupt practices, said Internal Revenue Service (IRS)-Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI) Special Agent in Charge Victor W. Lessoff.Moreover, the convictions represent an important victory for Americas taxpayers, especially those who live in the municipalities harmed by the actions of the defendants.   A total of eighteen individuals have been charged as a result of the departments ongoing municipal bonds investigation.Including todays convictions, a total of 15 individuals have been convicted and three await trial.Additionally, one company has pleaded guilty.      Each of the fraud conspiracy charges carries a maximum penalty per count of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine.The maximum fines for the fraud conspiracy offense may be increased to twice the gain derived from the crime or twice the loss suffered by the victims of the crime, if either of those amounts is greater than the statutory maximum fine.   The verdict announced today resulted from an ongoing investigation conducted by the Antitrust Divisions New York Office, the FBI and the IRS-CI.The division is coordinating its investigation with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.   None None