A Massachusetts man was sentenced to serve four years in prison today for hacking into computer networks around the country  including networks belonging to law enforcement agencies and a local college  to obtain highly sensitive law enforcement data and to alter academic records, as well as for possessing stolen credit and debit card numbers. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Carmen M. Ortiz of the District of Massachusetts, Special Agent in Charge Vincent Lisi of the FBIs Boston Division and Colonel Timothy P. Alben of the Massachusetts State Police made the announcement.Cameron Lacroix, 25, of New Bedford, Massachusetts, pleaded guilty on June 25, 2014, to two counts of computer intrusion and one count of access device fraud. Lacroix was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge Mark L. Wolf of the District of Massachusetts.Lacroix admitted that, between May 2011 and May 2013, he obtained and possessed payment card data for more than 14,000 unique account holders. For some of these account holders, Lacroix also obtained other personally identifiable information.Additionally, from August 2012 through November 2012, Lacroix repeatedly hacked into law enforcement computer servers containing sensitive information including police reports, intelligence reports, arrest warrants, and sex offender information. In one such instance, in September 2012, Lacroix hacked into a computer server operated by a local Massachusetts police department and accessed an e-mail account belonging to the chief of police.Lacroix, who was a student at Bristol Community College (BCC), also admitted that between September 2012 and November 2013, he repeatedly hacked into BCCs computer servers and used stolen log-in credentials belonging to three instructors to change grades for himself and two other students.The case was investigated by the FBIs Boston Division Cyber Task Force. The case is being prosecuted by Senior Trial Attorney Mona Sedky from the Criminal Divisions Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Adam Bookbinder of the District of Massachusetts.The U.S. Attorneys Office for the Northern District of California has also filed hacking charges against Lacroix. That case has been transferred to the District of Massachusetts and is before Chief Judge Saris.