  Thair Alwan and his son Saill  Fadhil, owners and operators of Raleigh, North Carolina, area pizza stores,  pleaded guilty today to willfully filing false tax returns in the U.S. Court for  the Eastern District of North Carolina, the Justice Department and Internal  Revenue Service (IRS) announced today.   According to court documents and  statements made in court, Alwan, of Garner, North Carolina, and Fadhil, of  Raleigh, own and operate a number of pizza stores in and around Raleigh called I  Love NY Pizza.  During the tax years 2008 and 2009, Alwan and Fadhil willfully  skimmed almost all of the companys cash receipts from their various stores and  filed false federal income tax returns which failed to report the flow-through  income, resulting in substantial tax underpayments.  The skimmed receipts   estimated at $1.34 million  were used for personal expenditures or deposited  into their personal bank accounts.  When making cash deposits, the defendants  structured the transactions under $10,000 and avoided the filing of Currency  Transaction Reports.   According to court documents and  statements made in court, I Love NY Pizza had two stores locations in Raleigh  and one store location in Knightdale by 2008, and in 2009 another location in  Apex was added.  Fadhil eventually assumed management responsibility for a  location after he graduated from college.  Although employees stated that the  business was at least 40 percent cash sales, cash deposits into the corporate  bank account, as a percentage of total deposits, were 1.3 percent in 2008 and  2.3 percent in 2009.  Between 2007 and 2010, Alwan made or caused 73 currency  deposits into his personal accounts.  Of the 73 deposits, 50 were at least  $9,000, and the majority of these were in the amount of $9,980.  None of the  deposits were more than $10,000.   Alwan and Fadhil each face a statutory maximum  sentence of three years in prison, one year of supervised release and a maximum  fine of $250,000 per count at their sentencings, which have not yet been  scheduled.  Alwan and Fadhil have also agreed to pay restitution to the IRS.   The case was investigated by special agents from  IRS-Criminal Investigation and prosecuted by Trial Attorney Todd Ellinwood of  the Justice Department's Tax Division and Assistant U.S. Attorney Adam Hulbig of  the Eastern District of North Carolina. None