  Rosario Rafael Burboa-Alvarez was  indicted by a federal grand jury in Tucson yesterday, becoming the seventh man  charged in connection with the murder of U.S. Border Patrol Agent Brian Terry,  announced Attorney General Eric Holder and U.S. Attorney Laura E. Duffy of the  Southern District of California.   When Border Patrol Agent  Brian Terry lost his life in the line of duty, in 2010, our nation incurred a  tremendous debt to this American hero  and his family  that we can never fully  repay. But with these charges, we are taking another important step to keep our  commitment to bring those responsible for his murder to justice, said Attorney  General Eric Holder. We will continue to be aggressive in our pursuit of anyone   anywhere  who commits an act of violence against an American law enforcement  official. And we will do everything in our power to ensure that they will face  justice in an American courtroom. This is our solemn obligation.   Agent Terry  was fatally shot on Dec. 14, 2010, when he and other Border Patrol agents  encountered armed robbers in a rural area north of Nogales, Arizona. Of the  defendants charged so far, two have pleaded guilty, three are awaiting trial and  two are fugitives.   Burboa-Alvarez, 30, is described in the indictment as the  recruiter who assembled the crew of armed robbers to travel from Mexico to the  United States and forcibly take marijuana from smugglers through threats or  actual violence.   The crew  members were identified in the indictment as Manuel Osorio Arellanes, Jesus  Rosario Favela-Astorga, Ivan Soto-Barraza, Heraclio Osorio-Arellanes, Lionel  Portillo-Meza and Rito Osorio-Arellanes.   The  indictment charges Burboa-Alvarez and others with first degree murder, second  degree murder, conspiracy to interfere with commerce by robbery and attempted  interference with commerce by robbery. Other crew members are also charged with  use and carrying a firearm during a crime of violence and assault on a federal  officer. In addition to the murder of Agent Terry, the indictment alleges that  the defendants assaulted Border Patrol Agents William Castano, Gabriel Fragoza,  and Timothy Keller, who were with Agent Terry during the firefight.   Burboa-Alvarez was already in custody in Tucson for  immigration-related crimes. He is scheduled to be arraigned in federal court in  Tucson at 1:45 p.m. today before U.S. Magistrate Judge Bernardo P. Velasco.   Portillo-Meza was captured in Mexico in September 2012 and  extradited to the U.S. on June 17, 2014. Soto-Barraza was captured in Mexico in  September 2013 and was extradited to the U.S. on July 31, 2014.   Favela-Astorga and Osorio-Arellanes are  fugitives.   Another defendant, Manuel Osorio-Arellanes, pleaded guilty to  first degree murder and was sentenced to 30 years in prison in February 2014.  Another defendant, Rito Osorio-Arellanes, who was in custody at the time of  Agent Terrys murder, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to interfere with commerce by  robbery and was sentenced to eight years in prison in January 2013.   This case is being prosecuted in federal court in Tucson by  attorneys from the Southern District of California. They are Special Assistant  United States Attorneys Todd W. Robinson, David D. Leshner and Fred Sheppard.  The U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Arizona is recused. This case is  being investigated by the FBI. The Justice Departments Office of International  Affairs provided assistance with the extraditions.    The public is reminded that an indictment is a formal charging  document and defendants are presumed innocent until the government meets its  burden in court of proving guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.