NoneNoneNoneThe Department of Justice is dedicated to building trust between law enforcement officers and the communities they serve; enlisting the publics assistance in reducing crime; and creating the stronger and safer communities that all Americans deserve, said Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch. This implementation guide offers a crucial blueprint for elected officials, law enforcement officers, and community leaders alike as they work to put important policies and reforms into practice across the country.NoneNoneCommunities1. Engage with local law enforcement; participate in meetings, surveys, and other activities.2. Participate in problem-solving efforts to reduce crime and improve quality of life.3. Work with local law enforcement to ensure crime-reducing resources and tactics are being deployed that mitigate unintended consequences.4. Call on state legislators to ensure that the legal framework does not impede accountability for law enforcement.5. Review school policies and practices, and advocate for early intervention strategies that minimize involvement of youth in the criminal justice system.Law enforcement1. Review and update policies, training, and data collection on use of force, and engage community members and police labor unions in the process.2. Increase transparency of data, policies, and procedures.3. Call on the POST Commission to implement all levels of training.4. Examine hiring practices and ways to involve the community in recruiting.5. Ensure officers have access to the tools they need to keep them safeLocal government1. Create listening opportunities with the community.2. Allocate government resources to implementation.3. Conduct community surveys on attitudes toward policing, and publish the results.4. Define the terms of civilian oversight to meet the communitys needs.5. Recognize and address holistically the root causes of crime.NoneThe implementation guide is a companion to the task force report and is informed by strategies shared at the July convening and feedback from the field. It provides guidance on implementing the task forces 59 recommendations and 92 action items and serves as a resource for law enforcement, local government, community members and other stakeholders interested in concrete examples of how to turn the task force recommendations into action.NoneNone