WASHINGTON  The Justice Department announced today that Nixon State Bank of Nixon, Texas, will establish uniform pricing policies, conduct employee training, and pay nearly $100,000 as part of a settlement to resolve allegations that it engaged in a pattern or practice of discrimination on the basis of national origin. None Fair and equal access to credit is critical and lenders have a responsibility to have protocols in place that ensure all of their lending programs comply with the law and dont discriminate, said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division. The Civil Rights Division is committed to fair lending enforcement that stops abuses across the entire spectrum of credit markets. We are pleased that this settlement will compensate the victims of this discriminatory conduct and we commend Nixon for working cooperatively with the Justice Department in reaching an appropriate resolution of this case.Any form of discrimination is intolerable, including in the lending of money, stated U.S. Attorney John E. Murphy. The rates consumers pay for credit should be based solely upon factors directly related to their creditworthiness without any reference to their race or ethnicity. The FDIC is committed to ensuring its supervised banks comply with fair lending laws, including the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, said Mark Pearce, Director of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporations (FDIC) Division of Depositor and Consumer Protection. This particular matter highlights the dangers of discretionary pricing in loan products. We appreciate the collaboration with the Department of Justice to address this matter.  Prior to mid-2009, Nixon did not have a written loan pricing guideline for its unsecured consumer loans. Instead, the banks loan officers were granted broad discretion in handling all aspects of the unsecured consumer loan transaction. The Justice Departments complaint alleges that this policy had a disparate impact on Hispanic borrowers. Nixon began to develop uniform pricing policies in late 2009, which included implementation of a uniform rate matrix to price unsecured consumer loans. As part of the settlement, Nixon will further revise these and other pricing policies to ensure that the price charged for its loans is set in a non-discriminatory manner consistent with the requirements of ECOA. The settlement also requires the bank to pay nearly $100,000 to Hispanic victims of discrimination, monitor its loans for potential disparities based on national origin, and provide equal credit opportunity training to its employees. The agreement also prohibits the bank from discriminating on the basis of national origin in any aspect of a credit transaction. The lawsuit originated from a 2010 referral by the FDIC to the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division. Nixon is a member of the FDIC. None None