None In 2008, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) charged Daniel Chapter One and James Feijo with making deceptive claims that shark cartilage and certain other herbal formulations prevent, treat, and cure cancer, and lessen the side effects of chemotherapy and radiation. The lawsuit was part of Operation False Cures, a law enforcement sweep conducted by the FTC, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, and the Competition Bureau Canada aimed at peddlers of phony cancer remedies. Following an administrative hearing and appeal, in January 2010 the FTC ordered defendants to send a letter notifying purchasers that the FTC had found the advertising claims for the products deceptive because they were unsubstantiated. The FTC further ordered defendants to stop making health claims about their products unless the claims were substantiated by scientific evidence. Defendants refused to comply with the FTCs Order. At the FTCs request, the Department of Justices Consumer Protection Branch sued Daniel Chapter One and James Feijo in federal district court seeking civil penalties for the violations of the FTCs order and a court order requiring compliance with the FTC order The District Court entered a preliminary injunction requiring defendants to comply with the FTC Order. Nevertheless, Daniel Chapter One, James Feijo, and his wife, Patricia Feijo, continued to tell consumers that their products could treat and cure cancer, and refused to send the corrective notice to past purchasers. The United States then sought civil contempt sanctions against the defendants. Following a hearing on May 9, 2012, Judge Emmet G. Sullivan of the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia found that clear and convincing evidence demonstrated that Daniel Chapter One, James Feijo, and Patricia Feijo were violating the preliminary injunction through statements on their radio show, statements on their websites, and by failing to send the corrective notice. The court has provided the defendants with two weeks to remove the offending statements from their websites, send the corrective notice, and make a sufficient representation to the court that they will cease making the offending statements on their radio show. If they fail to do so, they will begin accruing fines and face imprisonment for their contempt of court. None Marketers of phony cancer treatments tend to use tactics like the following:   Claiming that the same treatment will work for everybody and every type of cancer;  Advising customers to avoid surgery, radiotherapy, chemotherapy, and other conventional treatments;  Using customer testimonials to prove the effectiveness of the treatment;  Offering miracle treatments for serious illnesses;  Discrediting scientific studies, the Food and Drug Administration, and doctors. NoneCivil Contempt Order