  WASHINGTON  A former executive at Bennett Environmental Inc. (BEI), a Canada-based company that treats and disposes of contaminated soil, was sentenced today to 50 months in prison for participating in money-laundering and fraud conspiracies in connection with contracts at a Superfund site in New Jersey, as well as impeding a proceeding before the U.S . Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Department of Justice announced. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)-designated Superfund site, Federal Creosote, is located in Manville, N.J. None   According to court documents, Griffiths and his co-conspirators also conspired to commit international money laundering, the purpose of which was for Griffiths to profit personally from the fraud and kickback scheme. From approximately February 2003 through approximately September 2004, Griffiths and a co-conspirator who received more than $1 million in kickbacks through his shell company, laundered approximately $207,000 of the kickback proceeds from the co-conspirators bank account in New Jersey to a bank account controlled by Griffiths in Ontario, Canada.   In addition, the department said that Griffiths obstructed an official proceeding before the SEC. On or about Nov. 3, 2005, Griffiths made false statements in response to questions asked by the SEC for the purpose of deceiving the SEC and concealing his conduct in the fraudulent scheme. At that time, the SEC was investigating whether Griffiths and others had obtained information not available to the public and relied upon that information to conduct certain securities transactions improperly.   The clean-up at Federal Creosote is partly funded by the EPA. Under an interagency agreement between the EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers, prime contractors oversaw the removal, treatment and disposal of contaminated soil as well as other operations at the Federal Creosote site.   Including Griffiths, a total of three companies and 10 individuals have been charged as part of the investigation. More than $6 millionin criminal fines and restitution have been imposed and five individuals have been sentenced to serve prison time. None