  WASHINGTON   A Chicago police officer and three members of the Almighty Latin Kings Nation  pleaded guilty to a racketeering conspiracy and other related charges in a superseding  indictment involving alleged members or associates of the Latin Kings, announced  Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Justice Departments Criminal  Division and U.S. Attorney David Capp of the Northern District of Indiana.  Chicago  police officer Alex Guerrero, 42, pleaded guilty today before Judge Rudy Lozano  of the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Indiana, in Hammond, Ind. Guerrero pleaded guilty to counts one, two, 14  and 15 of the third superseding indictment charging him with conspiracy to  participate in racketeering activity; conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute  and distribute five kilograms or more of cocaine and 1,000 kilograms or more of  marijuana; interference with commerce by threats or violence; and use and  carrying of a firearm during and in relation to crimes of violence and drug  trafficking. As part of his plea  agreement, Guerrero acknowledges that a 19-year prison sentence is appropriate.  The third superseding indictment, which charged 21  defendants, was returned by a federal grand jury in the Northern District of  Indiana on Nov. 16, 2011, and was unsealed on Nov. 18, 2011.  According  to the third superseding indictment, the Latin Kings is a nationwide gang that  originated in Chicago and has branched out  throughout the United States,  including to Texas.  The Latin Kings is a well organized street gang that has specific leadership  and is comprised of regions that include multiple chapters.   On  July 31, 2012, Brandon Clay, 26, of Chicago, and Antonio Gudino, 30, of East Chicago, each pleaded  guilty before Judge Lozano to count one of the third superseding indictment  charging them with conspiracy to participate in racketeering activity. As part  of their plea agreements, Clay and Gudino have each acknowledged that a prison  sentence is appropriate  30 years for Clay and 10 years for Gudino. On July 30, 2012, Jason Ortiz, 30, of Chicago pleaded guilty  before the same judge and to the same count as Clay and Gudino. As part of his plea agreement, Ortiz acknowledges  that a 25-year prison sentence is appropriate.  Guerrero  admitted in the plea agreement that he is responsible for possession of and  distribution of 150 kilograms or more of cocaine as alleged in count two. He also admitted in the plea agreement that  he physically restrained the victim in the course of the offense alleged in count  14. Guerrero admitted that he abused a  position of public trust in a manner that significantly facilitated the  commission or concealment of the offense.  The  following defendants were charged in the third superseding indictment:  Jose  Zambrano, 32, aka Speedy,aka Bird, aka Big Greasy, of Sauk Village,  Ill., and Jermaine Ellis, 23, aka J-Dub, Donnie Brosco, Shorty of  Chicago, were both charged in the first indictment returned on June 17, 2010,  and unsealed on June 29, 2010.  As  alleged in the third superseding indictment, the Latin Kings enforces its rules  and promotes discipline among its members, prospects and associates through  murder, attempted murder, conspiracy to murder, assault and threats against those  who violate the rules or pose a threat to the Latin Kings. Members are required to follow the orders of  higher-ranking members, including taking on assignments often referred to as  missions.  A  total of 23 members and associates have been indicted in this case. Of these defendants, 17 have pleaded guilty  and are awaiting sentencing. There are three defendants scheduled for trial on  Sept. 10, 2012, before Judge Lozano.  There remains one fugitive in this case, Paulino  Salizar, 30, aka Chino, from Chicago.  This  case was investigated by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and  Explosives; the Chicago Police Department; the East Chicago Police Department; the  Drug Enforcement Administration; the FBI; the Griffith Police Department; the  Hammond Police Department; the Highland Police Department; the Houston Police  Department; Immigration and Customs Enforcement-Department of Homeland Security;  and the National Gang Intelligence Center.  The  case is being prosecuted by Joseph A. Cooley of the Criminal Divisions  Organized Crime and Gang Section and David J. Nozick of the U.S. Attorneys  Office for the Northern District of Indiana. Andrew Porter of the U.S. Attorneys Office  for the Northern District of Illinois provided significant assistance.  The third superseding indictment is not evidence of  guilt. All defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a  reasonable doubt in a court of law.