Settlement Compensates Affected Borrowers and Allows Bank to Continue Motorcycle Lending Using Revised Dealer Compensation PoliciesEvergreen Bank Group of Oak Brook, Illinois, will eliminate or limit the discretion it gives to motorcycle dealers to increase interest rates as part of a settlement of a federal lawsuit alleging a pattern or practice of national origin and race discrimination in motorcycle lending, the Justice Department announced today. In addition to the elimination of dealer discretion, which is consistent with a policy that Evergreen voluntarily adopted in March 2014, the settlement will provide $395,000 in compensation for victims of Evergreens past discrimination.The settlement, which remains subject to court approval, was filed today with the departments complaint in the U.S. District Court of the Northern District of Illinois. The complaint alleges that Evergreen violated the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA), by charging approximately 2,200 Hispanic and African-American borrowers higher interest rates than non-Hispanic white borrowers between January 2011 and March 2014. The complaint alleges that Evergreens FreedomRoad Financial motorcycle lending unit charged borrowers higher interest rates because of their national origin or race, and not because of the borrowers creditworthiness or other objective criteria related to borrower risk. This discriminatory charge would result in the average victim paying about $200 to $250 extra during the term of the loan.The department, in cooperation with our partner agencies, continues to closely examine the motor vehicle lending market for potential discrimination, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta of the Civil Rights Division. We thank Evergreen for recognizing the risk of discrimination caused by discretionary dealer markups, and adopting new dealer compensation policies that substantially reduce that risk.Rather than taking applications directly from consumers, Evergreen makes most of its motorcycle loans through roughly 400 motorcycle dealers nationwide who help their customers pay for their new or used motorcycle by submitting their loan applications to Evergreen.Until March 2014, Evergreens business practice, like many other motor vehicle lenders, allowed motorcycle dealers subjective and unguided discretion to vary a loans interest rate from the price Evergreen initially set. The initial price set by Evergreen reflected the borrowers objective credit-related factors. Dealers received greater payments from Evergreen on loans that included a higher interest rate markup. The departments December 2013 lawsuit against Ally Financial Inc. and Ally Bank, which resulted in a settlement providing $80 million in borrower compensation, involved a similar compensation system.In March 2014, Evergreen eliminated motorcycle dealers discretion to increase interest rates. Instead, Evergreen adopted a policy of always compensating dealers based on a percentage of the loan principal amount that does not vary based on the loans interest rate. No discrimination was observed when the United States analyzed loans made under the new policy. The settlement allows Evergreen to continue using the revised compensation policy it adopted in March 2014.The lawsuit originated from a March 2013 referral by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) to the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division. Evergreen is regulated by the FDIC.NoneNoneThe settlement provides for an independent administrator to locate victims and distribute payments of compensation at no cost to borrowers whom the department identifies as victims of Evergreens discrimination. The department will make a public announcement and post information on its website once more details about the compensation process become available. Borrowers who are eligible for compensation from the settlement will be contacted by the administrator, and do not need to contact the department at this time. Individuals who believe that they may have been victims of lending discrimination by Evergreen and have questions about the settlement maycontact the department at 202-514-4713.None