The U.S. Departments of Justice and Labor have reached an agreement with the Washington State Department of Labor and Industries (L&I) to resolve civil rights complaints filed by limited English proficient (LEP) workers who alleged that they were subject to national origin discrimination in the states workers compensation program. These workers alleged that they were denied access to interpreters and to vital information in their primary languages. The agreement calls for significant improvements in language assistance services for LEP workers.This agreement symbolizes how federal and state government can work together to improve access to government services for limited English proficient communities. said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta, head of the U.S. Department of Justices Civil Rights Division. The Department of Justice will continue its efforts to ensure these communities have equal access to government services.Navigating a system of government benefits can be daunting for anyone, said U.S. Attorney Annette L. Hayes of the Western District of Washington. This is particularly so for members of our community who are applying for workers compensation benefits and whose primary language is not English. The changes to Washingtons Labor and Industries practices set forth in this settlement agreement will ensure all workers rights are protected regardless of their country of origin.I commend L&I for its commitment to work with the Civil Rights Center and the Department of Justice to remove language barriers for limited English proficient workers. said Director Naomi M. Barry-Prez of the U.S. Department of Labors Civil Rights Center.The Departments of Justice and Labor worked with L&I to develop a memorandum of agreement (MOA) that memorializes L&Is commitment to develop and implement a language access program that ensures LEP individuals are provided meaningful access to L&I programs, activities, and information. The MOA and new L&I Language Access Policy include the following commitments:The investigation was jointly conducted by the Federal Coordination and Compliance Section (FCS) in the Department of Justices Civil Rights Division, the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Western District of Washington and the U.S. Department of Labors Civil Rights Center (CRC). Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Section 188 of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, the Victims of Crime Act, and their corresponding implementing regulations all prohibit national origin discrimination and require recipients of federal financial assistance to provide LEP individuals meaningful access to programs and activities through no-cost language assistance services.NoneNone