A civil complaint was filed today in the U.S. District Court for Kansas against Native American Enterprises LLC, of Wichita, Kansas; its Vice President and part-owner, William N. McGreevy and is production manager, Robert C. Conner, to stop the distribution of adulterated food, the Department of Justice announced today.NoneInsanitary conditions at food processing facilities can present significant risks to consumers and food manufacturers must take steps to minimize those risks, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer, head of the Justice Departments Civil Division. The Department of Justice will continue to work aggressively with the FDA to combat and deter conduct that leads to the distribution of adulterated food to consumers.According to the complaint, FDA inspected NAEs facility, located at 230 N. West Street in Wichita, in August 2015 and collected environmental samples and observed numerous insanitary practices, including the defendants failure to manufacture and package food under conditions necessary to minimize microorganism growth, take necessary precautions to protect against contamination and maintain buildings in good repair. Specifically, according to the complaint, FDA observed rain water leaking through the roof in the packaging room, directly above where NAE employees packaged RTE refried beans. In addition, FDA observed cracks and holes in the walls and floor junctures that allow water and debris to collect, prohibit adequate cleaning and could harbor Listeria, according to the complaint.FDA inspected NAEs facility twice in 2014. As alleged in the complaint, FDA collected environmental samples during RTE refried bean production during each of the 2014 inspections and found Listeria in the facility. In addition, as alleged in the complaint, FDA also observed a failure to maintain equipment in an acceptable condition through appropriate cleaning and sanitizing.NoneThe government is represented by Trial Attorney Heide L. Herrmann of the Civil Divisions Consumer Protection Branch and Assistant U.S. Attorney Emily Metzger of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Kansas, with the assistance of Associate Chief Counsel for Enforcement Sonia W. Nath of the Food and Drug Division, Office of General Counsel, Department of Health and Human Services.A complaint is merely a set of allegations that, if the case were to proceed to trial, the government would need to prove by a preponderance of the evidence.None