WASHINGTON - The Justice Department today announced an agreement with the town of Warrenton, Va., to improve access to all aspects of civic life for individuals with disabilities. The agreement was reached under Project Civic Access (PCA), the departments wide-ranging initiative to ensure that cities, towns and counties throughout the country comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). The department has now reached 195 agreements under the PCA initiative, improving access to civic life for more than four million individuals with disabilities nationwide. Individuals with disabilities must have the opportunity to participate in local government programs, services and activities on an equal basis with their neighbors, said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division. I commend Warrenton officials for their commitment to improving access for all residents and visitors with disabilities to the towns full range of programs and facilities. This agreement represents another important step towards nationwide compliance with the ADA. After a comprehensive review, we are pleased that the town of Warrenton has agreed to take steps to ensure that all of its residents and visitors, including those with a disability, can take full advantage of the towns facilities and programs, said Neil H. MacBride, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia. PCA was initiated to ensure that persons with disabilities have an equal opportunity to participate in civic life, a fundamental part of American society. As part of the PCA initiative, Justice Department investigators, attorneys and architects survey state and local government facilities, services and programs in communities across the country to identify the modifications needed for compliance with ADA requirements. The agreements are tailored to address the steps each community must take to improve access. Under the agreement announced today, Warrenton officials will take several important steps to improve access for individuals with disabilities, such as:Todays agreement was reached under Title II of the ADA, which prohibits discrimination against individuals with disabilities by state and local governments. The department will actively monitor compliance with todays agreement, which will remain in effect for a period of three years or until the department has confirmed that all required actions have been completed, whichever is later. None None