  WASHINGTON  The Department of Justice and the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) announced today additional details regarding the public workshop that will be held on May 21 at Alabama A&M University in Normal, Ala., to explore competition and regulatory issues in the agriculture industry. The focus of the workshop will be consolidation and contracting practices of the poultry sector.The first joint public workshop was held last month in Ankeny, Iowa. None   U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder, U.S. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack and Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Antitrust Division Christine Varney will participate in the Alabama workshop.   Additionally, USDA and the Department of Justice are adjusting two previously announced dates for the Madison, Wis., and Fort Collins, Colo., workshops.The current schedule for the workshops is as follows: None  Specific areas of focus may include production contracts in the poultry industry, concentration and buyer power.    Alabama A&M University    Knight Reception Center    4900 Meridian St.    Normal, Ala. None  Specific areas of focus may include concentration, marketplace transparency and market dynamics in the dairy industry.    University of Wisconsin    Union Theater in Memorial Union    800 Langdon St.    Madison, Wis. None  This workshop will address beef, hog and other animal sectors. Likely issues for discussion are concentration in livestock markets, buyer power and enforcement of the Packers and Stockyards Act.    Colorado State University    Fort Collins, Colo. None  This workshop will look at the discrepancies between the prices received by farmers and the prices paid by consumers. As a concluding event, discussions from previous workshops will be incorporated into the analysis of agriculture markets nationally.    U.S. Department of Agriculture    Jefferson Auditorium    1400 Independence Ave., S.W.    Washington, D.C.   Additional details on the upcoming workshops will be provided at a later date.   MEDIA CONTACTS:     U.S. Department of Justice  Office of Public Affairs  Gina Talamona  202-514-2007   U.S. Department of Agriculture  Office of Communications  Jim Brownlee  202-720-4623