    Attorney General Eric Holder issued the following statement today:     Todays vote is the regrettable culmination of what became a misguided  and politically motivated  investigation during an election year.  By advancing it over the past year and a half, Congressman Issa and others have focused on politics over public safety.  Instead of trying to correct the problems that led to a series of flawed law enforcement operations, and instead of helping us find ways to better protect the brave law enforcement officers, like Agent Brian Terry, who keep us safe  they have led us to this unnecessary and unwarranted outcome.     During this time, the men and women of the Department of Justice  and I  have remained focused on what should and must be our governments top priority: protecting the American people.      When concerns about Operation Fast and Furious first came to light, I took action  and ordered an independent investigation into what happened.  We learned that the flawed tactics used in this operation began in the previous administration  but I made sure that they ended under this one.  I also made sure that agents and prosecutors around the country knew that such tactics must never be used again.  I put in place new policies, new safeguards, and new leadership to make certain of this  and took extraordinary steps to facilitate robust congressional oversight.  Let me be very clear  that was my response to Operation Fast and Furious.  Any suggestion to the contrary simply ignores the facts.     I had hoped that Congressional leaders would be good-faith partners in this work.  Some have.  Others, however, have devoted their time and attention to making reckless charges  unsupported by fact  and to advancing truly absurd conspiracy theories.  Unfortunately, these same members of Congress were nowhere to be found when the Justice Department and others invited them to help look for real solutions to the terrible problem of violence on both sides of our Southwest Border.  Thats tragic, and its irresponsible.   The problem of drugs and weapons trafficking across this border is a real and significant public safety threat  and it deserves the attention of every leader in Washington.      In the face of these and other challenges, the Justice Department has continued to move forward in fulfilling its critical law enforcement responsibilities. Whether it is with regard to prosecuting financial and health care fraud, achieving a record mortgage settlement, taking aggressive action in protecting the most vulnerable among us, or challenging proposed voting changes and redistricting maps that could disenfranchise millions of voters  this Department of Justice has not been afraid to act.      Some of these enforcement decisions were not politically popular and help to explain the action taken today by the House.  As Attorney General, I do not look to do that which is politically expedient  on behalf of the American people whom I am privileged to serve, I seek justice.       In recent weeks, the Justice Department secured its seventh conviction in the most serious terrorist plot our nation has faced since 9/11.  And just two days ago, the Department awarded more than $100 million in grants to save or create law enforcement jobs, including more than 600 jobs for recent veterans.   None     Todays vote may make for good political theater in the minds of some, but it is  at base  both a crass effort and a grave disservice to the American people.  They expect  and deserve  far better. None     Whatever the path that this matter will now follow, it will not distract me or the men and women of the Department of Justice from the important tasks that are our responsibility.  A great deal of work for the American people remains to be done  Im getting back to it.  I suggest that those who orchestrated todays vote do the same."