  The Department of Justice today announced that it has entered into a comprehensive memorandum of agreement with the Juvenile Court of Memphis and Shelby County, Tenn., to resolve findings of serious and systemic failures in the juvenile court that violate childrens due process and equal protection rights.   This agreement is the first time that the department has used its authority under the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 to address constitutional violations within a juvenile justice system.      The agreement is designed to ensure that the juvenile court protects constitutional rights of children throughout their court proceedings.   The agreement also requires the juvenile court to take steps to reduce racial disparities among similarly situated juveniles in different stages of the juvenile justice process.      We commend the court, led by Juvenile Court Judge Curtis Person, for taking this bold step toward reform, said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division.   This first of its kind agreement reflects a powerful commitment to upholding constitutional rights of all children appearing before the Juvenile Court.   We hope that juvenile courts around the country review this agreement to ensure that they are protecting the constitutional rights of children.None   The agreement provides for comprehensive reforms in the areas of due process, equal protection, and other areas of court operations.   Due process reforms provide procedural safeguards for children at critical phases of their cases, including requirements that the court:   The equal protection reforms in the agreement require that the court administer juvenile justice in a manner that is consistent with the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution.   These reforms require the juvenile court to:  Additional reforms will provide for strengthening the juvenile courts community engagement and accountability, including requirements that the court:     The investigation, opened in August 2009, was conducted by the Special Litigation Section of the Civil Rights Division under provisions of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994.   In April 2012, the department announced findings that the juvenile court failed to provide constitutionally required due process and equal protection to children appearing for delinquency proceedings.   The department also found constitutional violations in the detention facility. NoneShelby Co., Tenn., Agreement