The Justice Department reached four settlement agreements with over-the-road bus companies in Florida in the last month, to ensure that bus transportation is accessible for people with disabilities. The settlements under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) are with Dynamic Tours & Transportation Inc., Alltour America Transportation, Jet Set Line Inc. and VIPs Jet Tours Corp./Pegasus Transportation. The settlements are the product of collaborative enforcement efforts between the Justice Department and the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) of the U.S. Department of Transportation . The agreements remedy violations by the bus companies, including failing to maintain wheelchair lifts in working condition, failing to file required reports regarding ADA compliance, and lack of staff training on accessibility requirements. The settlement agreements require the bus companies:People with disabilities must be able to count on accessible bus service that is equal to the service provided to others, said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General of the Civil Rights Division.FMCSA will continue to work closely with the Department of Justice to enforce ADA compliance so that all travelers can enjoy destinations across America by way of commercial bus, said Anne S. Ferro, Administrator of the Department of Transportation's Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration.Title III of the ADA prohibits discrimination against people with disabilities by public accommodations, including small over-the-road bus companies. The Department of Transportations regulations implementing the ADA require that such companies perform regular maintenance checks to ensure that wheelchair lifts work, provide prompt accessible service with an alternative carrier if a small company does not have a lift-equipped bus, train their employees on accessibility requirements, and file annual accessibility reports with the FMCSA.In the past year, the Justice Department has reached a total of 22 settlements with bus companies to ensure compliance with accessibility obligations. None