  Deputy Attorney General James Cole announced  today that the Justice Department will implement a series of steps to help  address the influx of migrants crossing the southern border of the United  States.  These include refocusing immigration court resources to adjudicate the  cases of recent migrants; providing support and training to help address  violence in Central America; and redoubling efforts to work with other federal  agencies and the Mexican government to investigate and prosecute those who  smuggle migrants to the United States.   Individuals who embark on the perilous journey  from Central America to the United States are subject to violent crime, abuse,  and extortion as they rely on dangerous human smuggling networks to transport  them through Central America and Mexico, Deputy Attorney General Cole said.   We have an obligation to provide humanitarian care for children and adults  with children who are apprehended on our borders, but we also must do whatever  we can to stem the tide of this dangerous migration pattern.  The efforts we are  announcing today are intended to address the challenges of this influx in a  humane, efficient and timely way.   Cole announced that the departments Executive  Office for Immigration Review (EOIR) will refocus its resources to prioritize  cases involving migrants who have recently crossed the southwest border and whom  DHS has placed into removal proceedings -- so that these cases are processed  both quickly and fairly to enable prompt removal in appropriate cases, while  ensuring the protection of asylum seekers and others.   This refocusing of resources  will allow EOIR to prioritize the adjudication of the cases of those individuals  involved in the evolving situation at the southwest border, said EOIR Director  Juan P. Osuna.  Although our case management priorities are shifting, our  immigration judges will continue to evaluate and rule upon cases consistent with  all substantive and procedural rights and safeguards applicable to immigration  proceedings.   To augment its capacity to  adjudicate cases as promptly as possible, EOIR is committed to hiring more  immigration judges.  EOIR this week will also publish a regulation allowing for  the appointment of temporary immigration judges.  Further, EOIR plans both to  expand its existing legal access programs, and enhance access to legal resources  and assistance for persons in removal proceedings.None  Cole also announced that the Department is  seeking new funding, as a part of the Presidents emergency supplemental  appropriations request, to assist Central American countries in combatting  transnational crime and the threat posed by criminal gangs.  This regional  strategy for law enforcement capacity building would be aimed at addressing the  issues that have been a factor in forcing many migrants to flee Central America  for the United States.   The department will also redouble its efforts to  work with Mexican authorities to identify and apprehend smugglers who are aiding  unaccompanied children in crossing the U.S. border.  Later this week, the Deputy  Attorney General will also be meeting with the five U.S. Attorneys who represent  the southwest border districts to strategize on ways to disrupt and dismantle  criminal organizations on the border that are facilitating the transportation of  unaccompanied minors and others.   Today, Deputy Attorney General  Cole will go to the U.S. Customs and Border Protections McAllen Station and  processing facility to see the urgent situation at the border.  EOIR Director  Osuna will be testifying before the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental  Affairs Committee to highlight the Justice Departments efforts to aid in the  administration-wide response to the migrant influx.Fact Sheet