The owner of a company that buys and sells renewable fuel and fuel credits pleaded guilty in U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio to conspiracy for his role in a scheme that generated over $47 million in fraudulent EPA renewable fuels credits, and over $12 million in fraudulent tax credits connected to the purported production of renewable fuel. NoneNoneThe defendant helped orchestrate a massive scheme to defraud the U.S. government, American taxpayers and his companys competitors, said EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt. This case shows that EPA and its law enforcement partners are serious about ensuring a level playing field for businesses that follow the law and punishing those who break the rules in the name of personal gain.NoneThe Department of Justice vigorously prosecutes those who defraud the federal government through unlawful RFS schemes like the one at issue in this case, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Wood. We applaud the work of the DOJ and EPA law enforcement team that sought and obtained justice in this case. NoneThis case is another example that environmental programs are not immune from fraud, U.S. Attorney Glassman said. We will continue to catch and hold accountable those who attempt to defraud government programs of any sort.NoneTodays charges send a strong message that there are serious consequences for activity that defrauds the economy and taxpayers, said Special Agent in Charge Abbott. I commend the excellent cooperation between the prosecutors, agents and other investigators who worked tirelessly to uncover this fraudulent scheme and expose the perpetrators who were manipulating the system for their own gains.NoneGregory Schnabel pleaded guilty to participating in a conspiracy relative to a massive fraudulent fuel tax credit scheme for which he has agreed to pay over $13 million in restitution to the IRS, said Special Agent in Charge Korner. These tax credits were created in support of the production of various renewable fuels and fuel mixtures, they were not created to be a slush fund for thieves and fraudsters.NoneNoneNoneSchnabel bought and sold fuel from several individuals who have already pleaded guilty for their roles in the scheme, including: None