Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch announced today that the Justice Department collected $23.1 billion in civil and criminal actions in the fiscal year (FY) ending Sept. 30, 2015. Collections in FY 2015 represent more than seven and a half times the approximately $2.93 billion of the Justice Departments combined appropriations for the 94 U.S. Attorneys offices and the main litigating divisions in that same period.The Department of Justice is committed to upholding the rule of law, safeguarding taxpayer resources and protecting the American people from exploitation and abuse, said Attorney General Lynch. The collections we are announcing today demonstrate not only the strength of that commitment, but also the significant return on public investment that our actions deliver. I want to thank the prosecutors and trial attorneys who made this achievement possible, and to reiterate our dedication to this ongoing work.The largest civil collections were from affirmative civil enforcement cases, in which the United States recovered government money lost to fraud or other misconduct or collected fines imposed on individuals and/or corporations for violations of federal financial, health, safety, civil rights and environmental laws. In addition, civil debts were collected on behalf of several federal agencies, including the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Health and Human Services, Internal Revenue Service, Small Business Administration and Department of Education.The total includes all monies collected as a result of Justice Department-led enforcement actions and negotiated civil settlements. It includes more than $16.2 billion in payments made directly to the Justice Department and more than $6.8 billion in indirect payments made to other federal agencies, states and other designated recipients.In measuring collections recovered in FY 2015, this figure necessarily includes some cases that were resolved in previous years but the proceeds of which were collected in FY 2015.NoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneThe department collected hundreds of millions of dollars in criminal fines and penalties from companies involved in conspiracies to subvert competitive markets. Over the last year, the department collected fines greater than $10 million from nine companies involved in price-fixing conspiracies, including more than $200 million from auto parts suppliers and over $100 million from ocean freight companies. The department has also brought civil suits to stop anticompetitive behavior and collected civil penalties and disgorgement that deprived companies of the proceeds of illegal pre-merger coordination.