WASHINGTON  The Department of Justice and the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) announced today the agenda and panelists for the first joint public workshop, which will be held on March 12, 2010, in Ankeny, Iowa, to explore competition and regulatory issues in the agriculture industry. The workshop will be held at the Des Moines Area Community Colleges FFA Enrichment Center.The workshops, which were first announced by Attorney General Eric Holder and Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack on Aug. 5, 2009, are the first joint Department of Justice/USDA workshops ever to be held to discuss competition and regulatory issues in the agriculture industry. The goals of the workshops are to promote dialogue among interested parties and foster learning with respect to the appropriate legal and economic analyses of these issues, as well as to listen to and learn from parties with experience in the agriculture sector. Attendance at the workshops is free and open to the public. The general public and media interested in attending the initial workshop should register at https://go.dmacc.edu/ffa/agworkshop.The Department of Justices Assistant Attorney General for the Antitrust Division Christine Varney and Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack will participate in the workshop and will be joined by Iowa Agriculture Secretary Bill Northey and Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller. They will participate in a roundtable discussion with presentations on current issues affecting farmers. Two panels focusing on the competitive dynamics in the seed industry and trends in contracting, transparency and buyer power will follow. The first day of the workshops will end with an enforcer roundtable and public testimony.The workshop schedule follows:Opening Remarks (9:00 a.m. CST - 9:15 a.m. CST)NoneRoundtable Discussion and Presentation of Issues (9:15 a.m. CST - 11:30 a.m. CST)NoneInvited:Chet Culver, Governor, State of IowaA farmer roundtable discussion and testimony will also be given at this time. Farmer panelists will be posted on the Web site at a later date.Seed Competitive Dynamics Panel (1:00 p.m. CST - 2:15 p.m. CST)NoneNoneAgricultural Trends Panel (2:15 p.m. CST - 3:15 p.m. CST)NoneNoneEnforcer Roundtable Discussion Panel (3:30 p.m. CST - 4:15 p.m. CST)NoneNonePublic Testimony (4:15 p.m. CST - 5:15 p.m. CST)This is an opportunity for those in the audience to make comments in an open forum.NonePress Contacts:None 