A federal grand jury returned an indictment charging Gill Dewayne Garrett, 29, of Versailles, Kentucky, with unlawful distribution of a controlled substance that resulted in an overdose death, announced U.S. Attorney Kerry B. Harvey for the Eastern District of Kentucky, Special Agent in Charge Joseph Regan for the DEA and Chief John Wilhoit of the Versailles Police Department.In a two-count indictment, filed on Thursday, Garrett was charged with illegal distribution of fentanyl resulting in a death and with conspiracy to distribute fentanyl, heroin and cocaine. A co-defendant, Allen P. White, of Versailles, was also charged in the drug conspiracy.According to the indictment, on or about July 1, 2015, Garrett unlawfully distributed fentanyl, a powerful opioid, to an individual who died as a result of using the drugs he provided. The indictment also alleges that, from approximately June 2015 until August 2015, Garrett and White conspired to distribute fentanyl, heroin and cocaine in Woodford County.This case demonstrates why our Overdose Prosecution Initiative is so important for this region, said U.S. Attorney Harvey. Fentanyl is an extremely dangerous drug, far more potent than heroin. Fentanyl is turning up on our streets in increasing quantities, often with deadly results. Federal law provides for particularly severe consequences when illegal drug trafficking results in death. We intend to use every available tool to combat this terrible problem, including these enhanced penalties.The investigation was conducted by the Versailles Police Department and the DEA. Assistant U.S. Attorney Todd Bradbury is prosecuting this case on behalf of the federal government.A date for Garrett to appear in court has not yet been set. He faces a minimum of 20 years in prison and a maximum of life imprisonment. White faces a maximum of 20 years in prison.Any sentence following a conviction, however, would be imposed after the court considers the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and the applicable federal statutes.An indictment is an allegation only. All defendants are presumed innocent and are entitled to a fair trial, at which the government must prove their guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.