None  The settlement was announced today by Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Division Michael F. Hertz and the U.S. Attorney for the Central District of California Thomas OBrien.  The settlement of the HBT case demonstrates that the Department of Justice will investigate even the most complex and challenging allegations, said Michael F. Hertz, Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Civil Division. Todays settlement demonstrates that defense contractors will be held accountable and that the government will aggressively pursue all allegations of misconduct in the procurement process.None  At the same time, the Department, assisted by the Air Force General Counsels office, and Northrop also settled a Contract Disputes Act action brought by Northrop concerning its contract with the Air Force to develop and produce the Tri-Service Standoff Attack Missile (TSSAM), a low-cost, low-observable, tactical cruise missile. That suit, filed by Northrop in 1996 in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims in Washington, concerned the governments decision to terminate Northrops TSSAM contract due to cost and schedule overruns. The TSSAM Action settled for $325 million and the settlement resolves Northrops claims in excess $1 billion, bringing to a close this 12-year litigation.  The TSSAM matter was handled by the Commercial Litigation Branch of the Departments Civil Division, together with counsel for the Air Force. The HBT investigation was conducted by the Office of Inspector General for the NRO, with the assistance of the Defense Criminal Investigative Service, the Air Force Research Laboratory, Sensors Directorate at Wright Patterson Air Force Base, together with Civil Divisions Commercial Litigation Branch and the U.S. Attorneys office for the Central District of California.  The Department acknowledges the efforts of the late David W. Long, Senior Trial Counsel, Civil Division for his work while battling cancer in initiating, and the early development of, the HBT investigation for which work he received the Attorney Generals Mary C. Lawton award.