  Attorney General Eric Holder announced today $1.8 million in new resources to improve access to criminal legal services and strengthen indigent defense across the nation. In remarks during the 50 Years Later: The Legacy of Gideon v. Wainwright event hosted by the Department of Justice, the Attorney General emphasized the departments commitment to ensuring that all those accused of a crime, regardless of their wealth, education or class, have adequate legal representation and counsel. March 18th marks the 50th Anniversary of the U.S. Supreme Courts landmark decision in Gideon v. Wainwright, where the court unanimously ruled that even those unable to afford counsel are entitled to counsel by court appointment. At todays event, Attorney General Holder led a discussion on keeping and continuing the promise of Gideon, which included U.S. Supreme Court Justice Elena Kagan and former Vice President Walter Mondale, who, as Minnesota Attorney General in 1963, organized the submission of the amicus curiae brief to the U.S. Supreme Court with 21 state attorneys general in support of Clarence Gideon.  Despite half a century of progress, far too many Americans still struggle to gain access to the legal assistance they need, and far too many children and adults enter our justice systems with little understanding of their rights, said Attorney General Holder. This is unacceptable and unworthy of a legal system that stands as an example for the world. Im proud to say that todays Justice Department is rising to the challenge to confront the obstacles facing indigent defense providers.  Acting Associate Attorney General Tony West also delivered remarks about reclaiming Gideons petition at todays ceremony.None  Fair treatment and justice are the right of everyone, no matter what their income, said Deborah Leff, Acting Senior Counselor of the Access to Justice Initiative. Clarence Earl Gideon won a victory in the U.S. Supreme Court for all Americans. It is now our responsibility to make sure that Gideons promise is fulfilled.  The following Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA) initiatives were a part of todays announcement:  The following Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention (OJJDP) solicitation was also part of todays announcement:NoneNone