The Contaminated Syringes That Infected Patients Were the Subject of a RecallDrug and medical device company B. Braun Medical Inc. (B. Braun) has agreed to pay $4.8 million in penalties and forfeiture and up to an additional $3 million in restitution to resolve its criminal liability for selling contaminated B. Braun pre-filled saline flush syringes in 2007, the Department of Justice announced today.The B. Braun saline syringes had a B. Braun label but were manufactured by another company. Todays resolution includes a non-prosecution agreement that requires B. Braun to implement additional practices designed to increase its oversight of its product suppliers to prevent future sales of contaminated products. B. Braun, a medical device manufacturer, has global headquarters in Melsungen, Germany, and corporate headquarters in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, with primary manufacturing facilities in Allentown, Pennsylvania, and Irvine, California.The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (FDCA) prohibits companies from selling contaminated products, even when the company did not make the product itself, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer, head of the Justice Departments Civil Division. Companies must take reasonable steps to ensure that their suppliers are making quality products that help rather than harm patients. Todays settlement shows that the government will continue to hold companies accountable for failing to fulfill this critically important responsibility.Patients were infected by adulterated syringes distributed by B. Braun, said Acting U.S. Attorney John Stuart Bruce for the Eastern District of North Carolina. This agreement helps to provide justice for the victims and to deter such future conduct by distributorsof medical devices.According to the agreed upon statement of facts that accompany the non-prosecution agreement, in March 2006, B. Braun started buying B. Braun saline syringes from AM2PAT, Inc. (AM2PAT), which manufactured the syringes at a small facility in North Carolina. The saline solution in pre-filled saline flush syringes must be sterile because it can enter a patients bloodstream when the syringes are used to flush out or clean medical devices that provide access to a patients veins, such as central lines, ports and short peripheral catheters.As noted in the statement of facts, B. Braun was aware of manufacturing problems at AM2PAT, even before it began purchasing syringes from AM2PAT. In separate audits, both the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and B. Braun had found that AM2PAT was having problems complying with current good manufacturing practices. Although AM2PAT addressed some of these initial problems, additional problems persisted. In the spring of 2007, AM2PAT notified B. Braun that AM2PAT intended to move to a new manufacturing facility and change the company that would sterilize the B. Braun saline syringes through a new radiation sterilization process. Sterilization, a vital step in the manufacture of these syringes, can be complex. Before B. Brauns quality department approved either of these changes, B. Braun began selling B. Braun saline syringes made at AM2PATs new facility and sterilized by the new sterilization company. B. Braun later approved both of these changes even though B. Braun had already received complaints about the syringes changing colors and information from AM2PAT that it was making changes to its radiation process to avoid overcooking the syringes. B. Braun approved AM2PATs facility move without ever seeing AM2PATs operations at its new facility or confirming AM2PATs representations that it had properly validated its clean room and equipment after the move.Less than two months after B. Braun started selling syringes that AM2PAT made at its new facility with the new sterilization company, B. Braun recalled all of them because the radiation sterilization process caused dangerous white particles to develop in the saline inside the syringes.After the recall, AM2PAT told B. Braun that it gave B. Braun incorrect information about its new radiation sterilization process. It also sent B. Braun information showing that AM2PAT moved manufacturing equipment to its new facility without validating that the equipment worked as expected after the move. As explained in the statement of facts, even with this new information, B. Braun resumed buying B. Braun saline syringes from AM2PAT without going to AM2PATs new facility.NoneIn the governments non-prosecution agreement with B. Braun, B. Braun admits that it distributed B. Braun-labeled syringes that were adulterated under the FDCA. Under the terms of the agreement, B. Braun will increase oversight of its product suppliers by conducting on-site audits of companies that design and make finished products that bear the B. Braun name on the label or logo and testing such products for sterility, identity and purity, as appropriate, on a periodic basis. B. Braun will also be monitored by an independent compliance auditor during the term of the agreement. The auditor will assess B. Brauns implementation and maintenance of the enhanced compliance measures through on-site audits of B. Braun. B. Brauns chief executive officer and board of directors will also review and certify B. Brauns compliance efforts on an annual basis.Americans expect and deserve medical devices that are safe, effective, and that meet appropriate standards for quality, said Director George M. Karavetsos of FDAs Office of Criminal Investigations. Todays announcement should serve as a reminder of the FDAs continued focus on companies that put profits ahead of the public health.NonePrincipal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Mizer and Acting U.S. Attorney Bruce commended the efforts of the FDAs Office of Criminal Investigations and its Special Agent Paul Pierce for their work on this matter. The matter was also handled by Assistant U.S. Attorney Evan Rikhye of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of North Carolina and Senior Litigation Counsel Allan Gordus and Trial Attorney Shannon Pedersen of the Departments Consumer Protection Branch.NoneNone