None   Conference panels will discuss promoting the use of competition principles in government actions, anti-cartel enforcement awareness and outreach, effective operation of competition agencies, trends in merger enforcement, analysis of loyalty discounts and rebates, and competition enforcement and consumer welfare.   Member agencies also will finalize work programs for the upcoming year and engage in long-term planning.   In October 2001, the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) joined with antitrust agencies from 13 other jurisdictions around the world (Australia, Canada, the European Union, France, Germany, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, Mexico, South Africa, the United Kingdom and Zambia) to create the ICN.   The ICN now includes 117 member agencies from 103 jurisdictions.   The goal of the ICN is to provide a forum for antitrust agencies to address competition enforcement and policy issues of common interest.   The following portions of this years conference will be open to the press: None None  The conference opening will include remarks by Henk Don, Acting Chairman of the Board, Netherlands Competition Authority, and Joaqun Almunia, Vice President of the European Commission and European Commissioner of Competition. None  FTC Commissioner William Kovacic will present the ICN Curriculum Project, including its first video training materials that will become part of the ICNs virtual university on competition law and practice for competition agency officials. None  John Fingleton, Chief Executive, UK Office of Fair Trading, will join a panel to discuss the use of competition principles in government actions. None  Belinda Barnett, Criminal Deputy General Counsel of the Department of Justices Antitrust Division, will join a discussion on public awareness and outreach in the context of cartel enforcement, moderated by Alexander Italianer, Director General, Directorate for Competition in the European Commission. None None  FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz will present remarks and participate in a panel discussion on effectively managing competition agencies. None  Jarig van Sinderen, Chief Economist, Netherlands Competition Authority, will focus on a special project undertaken by the Netherlands Competition Authority on competition enforcement and consumer welfare. NoneNone None None  Randolph W. Tritell, Director of the FTCs Office of International Affairs, will present opening remarks preceding a panel debate on Arguing the Case: Scrutinizing a Loyalty Discount and Rebate Case from All Sides. None None