A member of the Universal Aryan Brotherhood (UAB) prison gang was sentenced in federal court today to 294 months in prison for conspiring to conduct a racketeering enterprise and related charges, announced Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney Danny C. Williams Sr. of the Northern District of Oklahoma.Anthony Ramon Hall, aka Tony, 40, of Tulsa, Oklahoma, was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge Claire V. Eagan of the Northern District of Oklahoma, who also ordered Hall to serve five years of supervised release.Hall pleaded guilty on June 9, 2015, and in connection with his plea, Hall acknowledged his membership in or association with the UAB, a violent, whites only prison-based gang with members and associates operating inside and outside of state prisons throughout Oklahoma. According to the plea, Hall held a leadership position in the UAB as a main-council member.Hall admitted that he conspired in racketeering activities to advance the UAB enterprise, including possessing and selling 500 grams or more of methamphetamine. Specifically, Hall admitted to using smuggled cell phones to coordinate the delivery, receipt and sale of methamphetamine by UAB members and associates outside of prison who would then return profits to him while he was incarcerated. Hall also coordinated the firebombing of automobile car that belonged to someone Hall believed had stolen from the UAB drug conspiracy, he admitted.The U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations; Tulsa Police Department; Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation; FBI; Tulsa County Sheriffs Office and Oklahoma Department of Corrections investigated the case. Trial Attorney John C. Hanley of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Allen Litchfield and Jan Reincke of the Northern District of Oklahoma are prosecuting the case.