  WASHINGTON  The United States has filed a lawsuit against Kaman Dayron Inc., alleging that the Orlando, Fla., defense contractor violated the False Claims Act by knowingly substituting non-conforming parts in fuzes (sophisticated ignition devices incorporating mechanical and/or electronic components) supplied to the military for use in "bunker buster" bombs, the Justice Department announced today. The suit was filed today in U.S. District Court in Orlando.  The allegations relate to FMU-143 fuzes for use in hard target penetration warheads, colloquially referred to as "bunker buster" bombs. The government alleges that Kaman Dayron knowingly substituted non-conforming bellows motors for the specified parts in three lots of fuzes supplied to the military, and that the non-conforming parts could cause the fuzes to fire prematurely, creating a hazard for military personnel and causing misfires of the warheads. The military discovered the parts substitution and has quarantined the defective fuzes.  "I take seriously the Department of Justices obligation to pursue allegations that a defense contractor is creating a safety risk to our military," said Assistant Attorney General Tony West, in charge of the Departments Civil Division. "We owe it to our military personnel to ensure that contractors know that this type of misconduct will not be tolerated."   This case is being prosecuted as part of a National Procurement Fraud Initiative. In October 2006, the Deputy Attorney General announced the formation of a National Procurement Fraud Task Force designed to promote the early detection, identification, prevention, and prosecution of procurement fraud associated with the increase in government contracting activity for national security and other government programs.  The Procurement Fraud Task Force is chaired by the Assistant Attorney General for the Criminal Division and includes U.S. Attorneys Offices, the FBI, the U.S. Inspectors General community, and a number of other federal law enforcement agencies. This case, as well as others brought by members of the task force, demonstrate the Justice Departments commitment to helping ensure the integrity of the government procurement process.