The Department of Justice announced today that Robert Wingfield, of Texas, and Bill Ma, of New Jersey, have agreed to pay $385,000 and $50,000, respectively, to resolve a lawsuit brought by the United States under the False Claims Act alleging that they engaged in a scheme to evade customs duties on imports of aluminum extrusions from the Peoples Republic of China (PRC).The nations customs laws are designed to protect domestic manufacturers from unfair competition abroad, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer, head of the Justice Departments Civil Division. These settlements show that the Department of Justice is committed to pursuing claims against anyone involved in a scheme to seek an unfair advantage in U.S. markets by evading duties on imported goods, including individuals who make such evasion possible by the businesses that import the goods.The Department of Commerce assesses, and the U.S. Department of Homeland Securitys Customs and Border Protection (CBP) collects, antidumping and countervailing duties to protect U.S. businesses and level the playing field for domestic products. Antidumping duties protect against foreign companies dumping products on U.S. markets at prices below cost, while countervailing duties offset foreign government subsidies. Imports of PRC-manufactured aluminum extrusions have been subject to antidumping and countervailing duties since 2010. Aluminum extrusions are used, among other things, to make shower doors and enclosures.Wingfield was the U.S. sales representative for Tai Shan Golden Gain Aluminum Products Ltd., the Chinese company that exported the aluminum extrusions in this case. The complaint alleged that Wingfield conspired with domestic importers to submit false information to the government to evade duties, and that Ma later formed a company, Northeastern Aluminum Corp. (Northeastern), to act as the importer of record for the goods in an attempt to shield the real importers from liability. As the ostensible importer of record, Northeastern, through Ma, allegedly misrepresented the country of origin of the goods as Malaysia, when the goods were actually manufactured in the PRC and merely shipped through Malaysia, a country without duties on such items. This practice is called transshipping.NoneWhen businesses and individuals fraudulently evade import duties designed to foster fair competition, consumers lose, said U.S. Attorney A. Lee Bentley III of the Middle District of Florida. We will hold accountable those involved in illegal schemes that place businesses in our district at an unfair disadvantage.Antidumping and countervailing duties are critical to ensure fair competition for U.S. manufacturers, said Commissioner R. Gil Kerlikowske of the CBP. U.S. Customs and Border Protection works diligently with the Department of Justice, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Homeland Security Investigations and the U.S. Department of Commerce to aggressively pursue duty evasion.NoneThe case was handled by the Civil Divisions Commercial Litigation Branch, the U.S. Attorneys Office of the Middle District of Florida, CBP, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the Department of Commerces International Trade Administration.None