U.S. Attorney Stephen R. Wigginton of the Southern District of Illinois announced today that 16 people were arrested for offenses relating to the production and distribution of methamphetamine in Marion and Clinton Counties on Jan. 6, 2015, following their indictment by a Federal Grand Jury sitting in the Southern District of Illinois. The 16 arrested are: Daniel L. Gazdik, 50, Sara Rose Davis, 33, Brian Fear, 40, Misty Fear, 31, Katelyn Woolever, 21, Joseph Smith, 34, James Horton, 48, Destry Wood, 51, Shelonda Shackleford, 26, Craig Heitkamp, 50, and Rachel Reeve, all of Centralia; Michael Flanagan, 41, and Kathy Tomes, 61, of Sandoval; Dusty Gambill, 39, of Central City; and David Altom, 41, and Jayme Barnes, 35, of Odin.Gazdik and Davis are charged in a seven-count indictment. Count 1 charges both with conspiracy to manufacture and distribute methamphetamine; Counts 2 and 3 charge Gazdik with distribution of methamphetamine; Counts 4 and 6 charge Gazdik, and Counts 5 and 7 charge Davis, with possession of a listed chemical knowing it would be used to manufacture methamphetamine. The maximum penalty for Count 1 is not less than five years in federal prison and up to 40 years in prison, a $5 million fine, and at least four years supervised release. The maximum penalty for Counts 2 and 3 is 20 years in prison, a $1 million fine, and at least three years supervised release. The maximum penalty for each of the remaining counts is up to 20 years in prison, a $250,000 fine, and three years supervised release.Brian and Misty Fear, Woolever, Smith, and Reeve are all charged in an eight-count indictment. Count 1 charges all defendants with conspiracy to manufacture and distribute methamphetamine; Count 2 charges the fears with possession of equipment, chemicals, products and materials with intent to manufacture methamphetamine; Counts 3 and 5 charge Misty Fear, Counts 3 and 4 charge Brian Fear, Counts 3 and 6 charge Smith, Count 7 charges Woolever, and Count 8 charges Reeve, with possession of a listed chemical knowing it would be used to manufacture a controlled substance. The maximum penalty for Count 1 is not less than five years in federal prison, and up to 40 years in prison, a $5 million fine, and at least four years of supervised release. The maximum penalty for Count 2 is 10 years in prison, a $250,000 fine, and 3 years of supervised release. The maximum penalty for each of the remaining counts is a maximum of 20 years in prison, a $250,000 fine and three years of supervised release.Flanagan, Gambill, Tomes, Altom, Barnes, and Horton are charged in an 11-count indictment. Count 1 charges all defendants with conspiracy to manufacture and distribute methamphetamine; Counts 2 and 7 charge Gambill, Counts 3 and 8 charge Tomes, Counts 4 and 9 charge Barnes, Counts 5 and 10 charge Altom, and Counts 6 and 11 charge Horton with possession of a listed chemical knowing it would be used to manufacture a controlled substance. The maximum penalty for Count 1 is not less than five years in federal prison, and up to 40 years in prison, a $5 million fine, and at least four years supervised release. The maximum penalty for each of the remaining counts is up to 20 years in prison, a $250,000 fine and 3 years supervised release.Wood and Shackleford are charged in a 15-count indictment. Count 1 charges both with conspiracy to manufacture and distribute methamphetamine; Count 8 charges Wood with attempt manufacture of methamphetamine; Counts 12 and 13 charge Shackleford, and Counts 14 and 15 charge Wood, with possession of a listed chemical knowing it would be used to manufacture a controlled substance. The maximum penalty for Count 1 is not less than five years in federal prison, up to 40 years in prison, a $5 million fine, and at least four years supervised release. The maximum penalty for each of the remaining counts is up to 20 years in prison, a $250,000 fine and 3 years supervised release.Heitkamp is charged in a two-count indictment. Count 1 charges him with possession of a listed chemical knowing it would be used to manufacture a controlled substance; Count 2 charges him with unlawful user of a controlled substance in possession of firearms. The maximum penalty for Count 1 is up to 20 years in federal prison, a $250,000 fine and three years supervised release. The maximum penalty for Count 2 is up to 10 years in prison, a $250,000 fine, and three years supervised release.An indictment is a formal charge against a defendant. Under the law, a defendant is presumed to be innocent of a charge until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt to the satisfaction of a jury.Information leading to the charges was obtained in an investigation conducted by the FBI, the Marion County Sheriffs Office, and the Clinton County Sheriffs Department, assisted by the Illinois State Police Methamphetamine Response Team, the Centralia Police Department, the Jefferson County Sheriffs Department and the Mt. Vernon Police Department. Assisting in the arrests were the United States Marshal Service, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Drug Enforcement Administration, and the Illinois Department of Corrections. All of these cases are being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Kit Morrissey.