A federal jury in Detroit late yesterday convicted the operator of an adult day care center and two individuals who owned and operated a network of home health care companies for their participation in a $29 million Medicare fraud scheme.Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Barbara L. McQuade of the Eastern District of Michigan, Special Agent in Charge Paul M. Abbate of the FBIs Detroit Field Office, Special Agent in Charge Lamont Pugh III of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General (HHS-OIG) Office of Investigations Detroit Office and Special Agent in Charge Jarod Koopman of the Internal Revenue Service  Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI) Detroit Field Office made the announcement.According to evidence presented at trial, Felicar Williams, 51, of Dearborn, Michigan, operated Haven Adult Day Care Center LLC (Haven), which purported to provide adult day care services for patients suffering from mental health disorders such as schizophrenia and dementia. At Williamss direction, Haven billed Medicare for sophisticated mental health services purportedly provided by other, unlicensed staff members.Evidence at trial also established that Abdul Malik Al-Jumail, 54, and his daughter, Jamella Al-Jumail, 25, both of Brownstown, Michigan, owned and operated a series of fraudulent home health care companies, including ABC Home Care Inc., Associates in Home Care Inc., Accessible Home Care Inc., Swift Home Care LLC, and Be Well Home Care LLC. The companies billed Medicare for home health services that were not needed or not provided. At the instruction of both Abdul Malik Al-Jumail and Jamella Al-Jumail, employees of the home health companies fabricated patient medical records to make it appear that the services were needed and provided.According to evidence presented at trial, Abdul Malik Al-Jumail paid kickbacks to Williams to obtain billing information about patients at Haven. He then used the information to bill Medicare for home health care services that were never provided.In addition, the evidence at trial showed that, on May 2, 2012, the day her father was arrested, Jamella Al-Jumail instructed an employee to retrieve falsified patient medical records from the company. Later that day, Jamella Al-Jumail and others helped burn the false records.Haven and the various home health care companies billed Medicare for more than $29 million in the course of the conspiracy.The defendants were charged in a superseding indictment on May 1, 2014. After the 12-week jury trial, Williams was found guilty of conspiracy to commit health care fraud and conspiracy to pay and receive health care kickbacks in relation to the sale of Medicare billing information to Abdul Malik Al-Jumail.Abdul Malik Al-Jumail and Jamella Al-Jumail were each found guilty of conspiracy to commit health care fraud. Abdul Malik Al-Jumail was also found guilty of conspiracy to pay and receive health care kickbacks. Jamella Al-Jumail was also found guilty of destroying documents in connection with a federal investigation.Carey Vigor, 61, a psychiatrist from Algonac, Michigan, was also charged in the indictment and was acquitted by the jury.Sentencing has not yet been scheduled. Two other individuals charged in the indictment, Mohammed Sadiq and Philandis Thomas, are scheduled for trial in October 2014. One individual remains a fugitive.The charges contained in an indictment are merely accusations, and a defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.The case is being investigated by HHS-OIG, FBI and IRS-CI and was brought as part of the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, under the supervision of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of Michigan. The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Patrick Hurford, Chris Cestaro and Brooke Harper of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section.Since its inception in March 2007, the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, now operating in nine cities across the country, has charged nearly 2,000 defendants who have collectively billed the Medicare program for more than $6 billion. In addition, the HHS Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, working in conjunction with the HHS-OIG, are taking steps to increase accountability and decrease the presence of fraudulent providers.None