Former President and Three District Managers Also Face Criminal Charges NoneNoneEarlier today, an indictment was unsealed in the District of Massachusetts charging former Warner Chilcott President W. Carl Reichel, 57, of Chester, New Jersey, with one count of conspiring to pay kickbacks to physicians. Reichel was arrested today in Boston and will make an initial appearance at 2:30 p.m. before U.S. District Court Magistrate Judge Jennifer C. Boal.The Justice Department is committed to protecting the integrity of physician prescribing decisions and ensuring that financial arrangements in the healthcare marketplace comply with the law, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer, head of the Justice Departments Civil Division. The Department will continue to hold companies and responsible individuals accountable when they use improper incentives, like those alleged here, to promote their products.Doctors medical judgment should be based on what is best for the patient, and not clouded by expensive meals and other pharmaceutical company kickbacks, said U.S. Attorney Carmen M. Ortiz for the District of Massachusetts. Pharmaceutical company executives and employees should not be involved with treatment decisions or submissions to a patients insurance company. Todays enforcement actions demonstrate that the government will seek not only to hold companies accountable, but will identify and charge corporate officials responsible for the fraud.In a criminal information filed today in the District of Massachusetts, the government charged that, between 2009 and 2013, Warner Chilcott, through its employees acting at the direction of members of the companys management team, knowingly and willfully paid remuneration to physicians in order to induce those physicians to prescribe Warner Chilcott drugs. Under the law, it is illegal to offer or pay remuneration to physicians to induce them to refer individuals to pharmacies for the dispensing of drugs for which payments are made in whole or in part under a federal health care program. The information alleges that Warner Chilcott employees, at the direction of company management, provided payments, meals and other remuneration associated with so-called Medical Education Events, which included dinners, lunches and receptions. These events, which were often held at expensive restaurants, often contained minimal or no educational component and were instead used to pay prescribing physicians in an attempt to gain a competitive advantage over other companies. Warner Chilcott also enlisted high-prescribing physicians as speakers for the company. In fact, the speakers often did not actually speak about any clinical or scientific topics, and, instead, the payments were primarily intended to induce prescriptions. For instance, Warner Chilcott informed speakers who were not prescribing at a high volume that they would not be paid for subsequent events unless their prescribing habits increased.NoneNoneUnder the terms of the plea agreement, Warner Chilcott will pay a criminal fine of $22.94 million.NonePrior to todays guilty plea by Warner Chilcott and civil settlement, several individuals were either criminally charged or pleaded guilty to various offenses related to the companys alleged conduct. Two former district managers, Jeffrey Podolsky, 49, of East Meadow, New York, and Timothy Garcia, 35, of Los Gatos, California, previously pleaded guilty to various charges, including conspiracy to commit health care fraud and violations of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). A third former district manager, Landon Eckles, 30, of Huntersville, North Carolina, was criminally charged earlier this month for alleged HIPAA violations relating to the alleged prior authorization scheme. Last week a Springfield, Massachusetts physician, Rita Luthra, M.D., 64, of Longmeadow, Massachusetts, was charged with, among other things, allegedly accepting free meals and speaker fees from Warner Chilcott in return for prescribing its osteoporosis drugs.Placingfinancial gain above the legitimate needs of patients is deplorable, said Inspector General Daniel R. Levinson of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Paying kickbacks and even providing instructions on how to defraud Medicare are practices that will not be tolerated.Pharmaceutical companies and their employees have a significant responsibility to sell and market drugs in an ethical and legal manner, said Special Agent in Charge Harold H. Shaw of the FBIs Boston Field Office. This settlement and the related indictments reflect the commitment of the FBI and our government partners to aggressively investigate companies and individuals who fail that responsibility and seek to profit from fraudulent activities.NoneThe criminal case was prosecuted by the U.S. Attorneys Office of the District of Massachusetts and the Civil Divisions Consumer Protection Branch. The civil settlement was handled by the U.S. Attorneys Office of the District of Massachusetts and the Civil Divisions Commercial Litigation Branch. Assistance was provided by the FDAs Office of Chief Counsel, HHS Office of Counsel to the Inspector General, and the National Association of Medicaid Fraud Control Units. This matter was investigated by the FBI, HHS Office of the Inspector General, the Department of Defenses Defense Criminal Investigative Service, the FDAs Office of Criminal Investigations, the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Office of Personnel Managements Office of Inspector General. This settlement illustrates the governments emphasis on combating health care fraud and marks another achievement for the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT) initiative, which was announced in May 2009 by the Attorney General and the Secretary of Health and Human Services. The partnership between the two departments has focused efforts to reduce and prevent Medicare and Medicaid financial fraud through enhanced cooperation. One of the most powerful tools in this effort is the False Claims Act. Since January 2009, the Justice Department has recovered a total of more than $26.2 billion through False Claims Act cases, with more than $16.4 billion of that amount recovered in cases involving fraud against federal health care programs.Except for the conduct admitted in connection with the criminal plea, the claims resolved by the civil agreement are allegations only, and there has been no determination of civil liability.