None   Felony charges were filed on Dec. 19, 2013, in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia in Atlanta, against Amy James. According to court documents, from as early as Dec. 6, 2005, until at least Jan. 23, 2009, James conspired with others not to bid against one another, but instead to designate a winning bidder to obtain selected properties at public real estate foreclosure auctions in DeKalb County, Ga. James was also charged with a conspiracy to commit mail fraud by fraudulently acquiring title to selected DeKalb County properties sold at public auctions and making and receiving payoffs and diverting money to co-conspirators that would have gone to mortgage holders and others by holding second, private auctions open only to members of the conspiracy. The department said that the selected properties were then awarded to the conspirators who submitted the highest bids in the second, private auctions.  Todays guilty plea is the third in the Antitrust Divisions ongoing investigation into anticompetitive behavior at real estate foreclosure auctions in the state of Georgia, said Bill Baer, Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Department of Justices Antitrust Division. The Antitrust Division remains committed to holding accountable individuals who conspire to defraud distressed homeowners and lendersin Georgia and elsewhere.   The department said that the primary purpose of the conspiracies was to suppress and restrain competition and to conceal payoffs in order to obtain real estate offered at DeKalb County public foreclosure auctions at non-competitive prices. When real estate properties are sold at these auctions, the proceeds are used to pay off the mortgage and other debt attached to the property, with remaining proceeds, if any, paid to the homeowner. According to court documents, the conspirators paid and received money that otherwise would have gone to pay off the mortgage and other holders of debt secured by the properties, and, in some cases, the defaulting homeowner. None None NoneNone