  The Justice Department announced  today that it reached an agreement with Isabella Geriatric Center (IGC), a  nursing home located in New York City, resolving a claim that IGC engaged in a  pattern or practice of citizenship discrimination during the employment  eligibility reverification process in violation of the Immigration and  Nationality Act (INA).   The departments investigation  found that IGC required lawful permanent resident employees to present a new  Permanent Resident Card when their prior card expired, even though the Form I-9  and E-Verify rules prohibit this practice.    Lawful permanent residents have permanent work authorization in the  United States, even after their Permanent Resident Cards expire.   The investigation also found that IGC  required lawful permanent residents to provide proof of U.S. citizenship if they  became naturalized citizens.   The INAs  anti-discrimination provision prohibits employers from placing additional  documentary burdens on work-authorized employees during the employment  eligibility verification process based on their citizenship status.   The INA protects authorized  workers from discrimination in the employment eligibility verification and  reverification processes, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Molly Moran  for the Civil Rights Division.   The  Department of Justice is committed to ensuring that employers follow the law and  that they do not impose discriminatory obstacles that prevent work-authorized  individuals from working.   Under the settlement agreement,  IGC will pay $14,500 in civil penalties to the United States; undergo training  on the anti-discrimination provision of the INA; establish a back pay fund to  compensate potential economic victims; revise its employment eligibility  reverification policies; and be subject to monitoring of its employment  eligibility verification practices for two years.   The Office of Special Counsel for  Immigration-Related Unfair Employment Practices (OSC) within the Justice  Department is responsible for enforcing the anti-discrimination provision of the  INA.   Among other things, the statute  prohibits citizenship status and national origin discrimination in hiring,  firing or recruitment or referral for a fee, unfair documentary practices,  retaliation and intimidation. None   Applicants or employees who  believe they were subjected to: (1) different documentary requirements based on  their citizenship status, immigration status, or national origin; or (2)  discrimination based on their citizenship status, immigration status or national  origin in hiring, firing, or recruitment or referral for a fee, should contact  OSCs worker hotline for assistance.