  WASHINGTON  The president of a Costa Rican company that sold reinsurance bonds to life settlement companies was found guilty by a federal jury in Richmond, Va., today for carrying out a half-billion-dollar fraud scheme that affected more than 2,000 victims throughout the United States and abroad.  U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia Neil H. MacBride and Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Criminal Division made the announcement following the jurys verdict.  Mr. Vargas lied to investors across the globe to sell almost half a billion dollars worth of guaranteed bonds, which turned out to be worthless, said U.S. Attorney MacBride. His fraud affected thousands of victims around the world, many of whom invested their life savings with life settlement companies because of the worthless guarantees PCI made. Mr. Vargas may have thought he was safe operating his scheme from overseas, but his conviction is yet another example to global fraudsters: You can run, but you cant hide. This verdict demonstrates our ability to pursue justice on behalf of U.S. victims regardless of where the fraudsters may be hiding.None  According to court records and evidence at trial, PCI sold financial guarantee bonds to companies selling life settlements, or securities backed by life settlements, to investors. These bonds were marketed to PCIs clients as a way to alleviate the risk of insured beneficiaries living beyond their life expectancy. The clients, in turn, typically explained to their investors that the financial guarantee bonds ensured that the investors would receive their expected return on investment irrespective of whether the insured on the underlying life settlement lived beyond his or her life expectancy.  Evidence at trial showed that Calvo and PCIs purported independent auditor for PCI, Jorge Castillo, 56, of New Jersey, used lies and omissions to mislead PCIs clients and investors regarding its ability to pay claims when due on the financial guarantee bonds that PCI issued. Calvo caused Castillo to prepare audited financial statements that falsely claimed that PCI had entered into reinsurance contracts with major reinsurance companies. These false claims, which were supported by a letter from Castillo stating that he conducted an audit of PCIs financial records, were used to assure PCIs clients that the reinsurance companies were backstopping the majority of the risk that PCI had insured through its financial guarantee bonds. The fraudulent financial statements PCI distributed showed significant assets and relatively small liabilities.  From 2004 through 2010, PCI sold at least $485 million of bonds to life settlement investment companies located in various countries, including the United States, the Netherlands, Germany, Canada and elsewhere. PCIs clients, in turn, sold investment offerings backed by PCIs bonds to thousands of investors around the world. Purchasers of PCIs bonds were required to pay up-front payments of six to 11 percent of the underlying settlement as premium payments to PCI before the company would issue the bonds.  Evidence at trial showed that Vargas sent more than $23 million of his ill-gotten gains to fund his professional soccer team in Costa Rica, to his unrelated companies, to his family and to himself. Due, in part, to these expenditures, when it came time to make good on PCIs promises to pay bond holders, Vargas resorted to yet more lies to justify PCIs inability to do so.  Castillo, who was a PCI employee prior to becoming PCIs outside auditor, pleaded guilty on Nov. 21, 2011, to conspiring to commit mail and wire fraud, which carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison. Castillo is scheduled to be sentenced on May 22, 2012. In addition, the corporation, PCI, pleaded guilty on April 18, 2012, to conspiring to commit mail and wire fraud, which carries a maximum term of five years probation.  This continuing investigation is being conducted by the U.S. Postal Inspection Service, Internal Revenue Service and FBI, with assistance from the Virginia State Corporation Commission, the Texas State Securities Board and the New Jersey Bureau of Securities. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Michael S. Dry and Jessica Aber Brumberg of the Eastern District of Virginia and Trial Attorney Albert B. Stieglitz Jr. of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section.None