WASHINGTON - U.S. District Court Judge William P. Johnson entered a consent decree of permanent injunction against Sunland Inc., a Portales, N.M.-based producer of peanut butter, and Jimmie D. Shearer, president and chief executive officer of Sunland, the Justice Department announced today. The department, at the request of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), asked the court to enter the consent decree.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has reported that since September 2012 at least 35 people from 19 states have been infected with a strain of Salmonella Bredeney. Eight of these individuals were hospitalized as a result of their infection. Peanut butter manufactured by Sunland was identified by FDA and the CDC as a likely source of this outbreak.As set forth in the complaint filed by the United States on December 20, FDA conducted an inspection of defendants facility from Sept. 9 to Oct. 16, 2012. According to the complaint, FDA analyses of samples collected during the 2012 inspection confirmed that certain of Sunlands nut products were contaminated with Salmonella Bredeney and established the widespread presence of Salmonella Bredeney in Sunlands facility. Salmonella Bredeney is a pathogenic organism that has a reasonable probability of causing serious adverse health consequences or death to humans.FDA suspended the registration of Sunlands food facility on Nov. 26, 2012. As the FDAs suspension letter explained, the FDAs analysis found that the Salmonella Bredeney detected at Sunland was indistinguishable from the Salmonella Bredeney identified in the multistate outbreak and the FDAs investigation uncovered a number of practices that likely result in cross-contamination between raw peanuts and peanuts that had been roasted or brined. Specifically, packaging equipment was not effectively cleaned to prevent contamination; collapsible mesh totes used to store and transport nuts were not cleaned and sanitized between uses; employees came into contact with ready to package, roasted, in-shell peanuts with their bare hands; and processing equipment had unused connections that could facilitate the growth of pathogenic bacteria by allowing food material and water to accumulate.NoneThis consent decree prohibits Sunland from selling processed foods to consumers until it fully complies with the law, said Stuart F. Delery, Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Civil Division. As this case demonstrates, the Department of Justice and FDA will work together to protect the health and safety of Americans by making sure that those who produce and sell the food we eat follow the law.Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Delery thanked the FDA for referring this matter to the Department of Justice. Roger Gural, Trial Attorney at the Consumer Protection Branch of the Justice Department, in conjunction with Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael Hoses in the District of New Mexico, and Scott Kaplan and Jillian Wein Riley, Counsel at FDAs Office of the Chief Counsel, brought this case on behalf of the United States.