  WASHINGTON  Attorney General Eric Holder today endorsed the reauthorization of the Second Chance Act, bipartisan legislation introduced by Senators Patrick Leahy and Rob Portman and its companion legislation by Representatives Danny Davis and F. James Sensenbrenner, Jr. that provides resources and support to people reintegrating into their communities after being incarcerated. The Attorney Generals endorsement came while visiting a graduation ceremony for participants of Project EARN, a federal reentry court in St. Louis. The visit highlighted the departments Smart on Crime initiative that seeks to reform the criminal justice system, improve reentry programs, and pursue alternatives to incarceration for low-level, non-violent offenses.  During Fiscal Year 2013 under the Second Chance Act, the Justice Departments Bureau of Justice Assistance and the Office of Juvenile Justice funded over 100 grants, totaling more than $62 million, to support improved probation, parole, and reentry programs throughout America. The grants include mental health and substance abuse treatment initiatives, technology career training programs, juvenile reentry efforts, and smart probation projects. If Congress fails to reauthorize the Second Chance Act, countless neighborhoods will no longer have the critical support that has helped make profound and positive differences.  Please see below for the Attorney Generals prepared remarks in St. Louis.  REMARKS AS PREPARED FOR DELIVERY BY ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC HOLDER AT PROJECT EARN GRADUATION CEREMONY  Thank you, Your Honor  and good morning, everyone. It is a pleasure to be here in St. Louis, and a privilege to stand with each of the participants  and, especially, the graduates  of this remarkable program.  I appreciate the opportunity to share this moment with you. And I am honored to join all of the proud family members and friends who are with us today in celebrating your achievements, reflecting on the progress youve made, and reaffirming your individual commitments to yourselves, your communities  and your futures.  First, to our graduates: I know the journey that has led you to this moment has not been easy. I know youve had to work hard and overcome tremendous adversity.  At times, its been an uphill battle. But the fact that you stand before this Court as Project EARN graduates is not only inspiring  it is proof of the strength, and the sheer determination, that defines you. And its emblematic of the courage that defines everyone who has the resolve to enter treatment and keep moving down the long and difficult  but ultimately rewarding  road to recovery.  For our graduates  and for those who aspire to join them  I know this program has presented both an opportunity and a challenge. It has required you to be honest with yourselves, and with your families and friends. It has demanded that you confront your weaknesses and acknowledge past mistakes. And it has given you the chance not only to reclaim your future, but to build a new one.  We can all be proud of the positive strides that our four distinguished graduates have made in this regard.  After a great deal of hard work, Kenneth Johnson is expected to earn his degree in HVAC next month. And hes already giving back to those around him by helping others stay on the right path and maintain a sober lifestyle.  Roger Jenkins is a full-time college student whos only three credits away from earning his degree. Hes keeping busy  running his own carpet cleaning business, which Im glad to hear is thriving, and placing a renewed focus on his wonderful family.  Donald Westrich has turned his back on decades of drug use. Hes been sober for more than a year. And, in addition to maintaining full-time employment, hes become active in his community through a local church.  Last but not least, Michael Stephens has undergone a remarkable transformation. After a difficult start in this program, he has been free of cocaine use for more than a year. Hes served as a source of inspiration to many of those around him. And Im told that he always has a smile on his face.  Each of these graduates is here as a result of months of hard work, dedication, and willpower. Today, they stand among the ranks of well over a million people who have graduated from drug courts like this one across the country.  I hope those of you who are still making your way through this program will be encouraged by what theyve accomplished.  As you keep moving forward, I want you to know that you have my support, and the support of my colleagues at every level of the Department of Justice  as well as President Obama and others throughout the Administration.  All of us are committed to the same goals that have driven leading criminal justice professionals to come together  here in St. Louis  to create this innovative program. And were determined to keep building on the successes youre making possible  not only in this community, but across the country.  In fact, I am pleased to announce today that, during Fiscal Year 2013, the Justice Department funded over 100 grants totaling more than $62 million under the landmark Second Chance Act. These important funds support improved probation, parole, and reentry programs throughout America. And they have the potential to make a real difference in countless neighborhoods.  Thats why its imperative that we keep up the good work. I want to take this opportunity to call on Congress to pass legislation, introduced yesterday by U.S. Senators [Patrick] Leahy and [Rob] Portman, which would reauthorize and strengthen the Second Chance Act. This law enjoys broad, bipartisan support. And its timely reauthorization would enable us to institutionalize our commitments to programs like this one  and continue providing the resources necessary to make good on our nations promise of equality, opportunity, and justice under law.  We must support these programs because we recognize that  as our graduates here have shown  better treatment, and expanded access to the resources you need, can result in better outcomes and brighter futures for many who come into contact with the criminal justice system.  This is something Ive seen firsthand. During my time as a judge on the Superior Court in Washington, D.C.  and later as United States Attorney for the District of Columbia  I learned how drug abuse, crime, and incarceration can trap people in a destructive cycle. A cycle that weakens communities, tears families apart, and destroys individual lives.  Day after day, I watched lines of young people  most often young men of color  stream through my courtroom. Too many of the faces I saw became familiar  because too many of the people I sentenced served their time, were released from prison, and sooner or later returned to the same behavior that had led them to my courtroom in the first place.  Thats one reason why Im passionate about programs like this one  programs that can help strong, committed individuals like you to break that cycle and gain the tools you need to reenter your communities and lead productive and fulfilling lives.  But Im also here today because I understand that our country has a broader obligation to stand with you, and to support you  because were not fundamentally different.  I grew up in a neighborhood  in Queens  where people like you would have been my friends. We would have gone to school, and partied, and played basketball together.  So I cant help but feel mindful of the fact that, although Im here in my capacity as Attorney General of the United States, a few of the people I grew up with  good people, like you ended up taking very different paths. Some of them didnt catch the same breaks. Some had to deal with drug issues. And some became involved with the criminal justice system  because of bad luck, or bad choices, or both.  Ive seen how tough it can be for people in your shoes to turn your lives around, to deal with unfairness, and to overcome adversity. I know that everyone makes mistakes  everyone. Including me. And thats why I wanted to be here today: to tell you in person how proud I am that each of you has decided not to let your mistakes define you  and not to make excuses  but to make the most of the opportunities that youve been given.  Youre here today because youre smart. You have the skills and the determination not just to make positive contributions, but to become role models for those around you  especially the young people who will learn from your examples.  Never forget that you have a responsibility to these kids  to talk to them, to serve as mentors, to help them learn from your mistakes, and to ensure that their lives arent interrupted or cut short.  For those of you who are graduating today  Kenneth, Roger, Donald, and Michael  I congratulate you on this extraordinary achievement. For those who are just starting Project EARN, or who are well on your way  I am proud of every one of you.  I am confident in your ability to keep moving forward, to become leaders and role models in your neighborhoods, and to make the difference that our fellow citizens  and especially our young people  need and deserve.  Congratulations, once again  and keep up the great work. I expect to hear great things about all that youll do and achieve from this moment forward.  For more information about the departments Smart on Crime initiative, please visit http://www.justice.gov/ag/smart-on-crime.pdf. 