The U.S. District Court for the Central District of California entered a consent decree of permanent injunction on Dec. 1 against Neptune Manufacturing Inc. of Los Angeles and its corporate officers, Alexander Goldring, Peter Oyrekh and Semyon Krutovsky, to prevent the distribution of adulterated seafood products, the Department of Justice announced today.The department filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California on Nov. 21 at the request of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), alleging the companys seafood products are produced under conditions that are inadequate to ensure the safety of its products. The complaint alleges that Neptune prepares, processes, packs, holds and distributes ready-to-eat smoked and salt-cured seafood including pickled herring, smoked steelhead trout, smoked halibut, smoked whitefish, smoked salmon and smoked mackerel. The complaint also alleges that defendants Goldring, Oyrekh and Krutovsky are Neptunes corporate officers with the authority and responsibility for preventing and correcting violations of federal law at the company.In conjunction with the filing of the complaint, the defendants agreed to settle the litigation and be bound by a consent decree of permanent injunction that prohibits them from committing violations of the federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. The consent decree requires Neptune to cease all manufacturing operations and requires that, in order for defendants to resume distributing seafood products, the FDA first must determine that Neptunes manufacturing practices have come into compliance with the law.Neptune was repeatedly informed that the sanitation practices at its facility were deficient, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Joyce R. Branda for the Justice Departments Civil Division. The failure to actively plan for and control the presence of bacteria and neurotoxins commonly found in seafood processing facilities can pose a serious risk to the public health.NoneNoneThe government is represented by Trial Attorney Dan Baeza of the Civil Divisions Consumer Protection Branch, with the assistance of Assistant U.S. Attorney Deborah Yim for the Central District of California and Assistant Chief Counsel for Enforcement Yen Hoang of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of General Counsels Food and Drug Division.