NoneThe Attorney Generals Awards provide us with a rare opportunity to honor the efforts of outstanding department employees and our invaluable partners across the federal government and at the state and local levels, said Attorney General Lynch. Their work has made our nation  and our world  stronger, safer and more just, and I am proud of and inspired by each and every one of them.NoneNoneNoneWhile working on a task force investigating the location of a dangerous fugitive, who was wanted in Indiana for multiple counts of attempted murder and aggravated battery with a firearm, Grimaldo, Brown and Hausmann tracked the fugitive to his sisters apartment. The team was joined by officers from the Chicago Police Department (CPD). As they approached the apartment, the group encountered gunfire coming from inside the building. A captain with the CPD was struck in the head and shoulder and fell to the ground. Hausmann immediately administered first aid to the captain, while Grimaldo and Brown returned gunfire. Within minutes, Grimaldo managed to make his way to a nearby apartment, signal to officers to call an ambulance and organize a plan to safely evacuate the injured captain. As Hausmann assisted with safely evacuating the captain to the ambulance, the fugitive continued to engage Grimaldo and Brown in gunfire. SWAT team members soon arrived and eventually took the fugitive into custody. Thanks to the teams extraordinary courage in carrying out their duties under a life-threatening situation, the police captain survived and has returned to full duty.NoneIn his 25 years with the department, Wilkinson has been a skilled and respected manager whose leadership has made a tremendous impact in his offices, in his community and in the department as a whole. Throughout his career, Wilkinson has abided by a leadership style that focuses on nurturing relationships, fostering respect, maximizing potential, maintaining excellence, promoting a strong sense of service and achieving results. He has served in leadership roles in the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Columbia, the Office of the Deputy Attorney General, the Office of the Attorney General and the Executive Office for U.S. Attorneys. In each position, Wilkinson has excelled by personifying professionalism, wisdom, judgment, savvy, dedication and perseverance.NoneNoneOn March 2, 2015, the USMS Task Force in Indianapolis requested aid from the USMS Detroit Fugitive Apprehension Team to assist with an Amber Alert case for two children abducted at gunpoint from their homes in Indiana. The team immediately responded by coordinating with multiple state and local law enforcement and the Detroit FBI Violent Crimes Task Force, resulting in a quick and thorough investigation and rescue of the two children. The recipients experience in cooperative law enforcement was evident in the swift and safe rescue and arrests that occurred without harm to the children or the community. The established partnerships and cooperation between the federal, state and local law enforcement agencies were crucial to the successful investigation and rescue in this abduction case and in the many other cases the team works on a daily basis. The teams performance, dedication and cooperative efforts saved the lives of two abducted children and made the communitys period of fear short-lived. The lives of the children could have turned out very differently if not for the excellent participation and cooperative interagency effort made by the six state and local law enforcement agencies that make up this team of exceptional officers.NoneNila is honored for his significant contributions to state and local law enforcement and communities nationwide. During his law enforcement career, he recognized a significant gap between what we want our countrys police officers to be and how the law enforcement profession is currently educating its personnel. To address this gap, Nila developed Blue Courage, a blend of education, principles, practices, skills and tools that foster a culture of leadership, character and service. Blue Courage focuses on the heart and mind which represents the foundation to making good decisions and enhancing the capacity to serve honorably. Today, over 10,000 officers have been trained in Blue Courage and its principles are now infused in recruiting and police academy curricula in four states, with an additional 10 states competing to go through the process. As a direct result of Blue Courage training, officers are more in tune with and aware of their thoughts and behaviors. Furthermore, they have tools to become centered and balanced, and are reminded of why they joined the law enforcement profession. Through Blue Courage, Nila has demonstrated he is a committed and effective partner in the departments efforts to inspire and engage our nations state and local law enforcement officers, and to strengthen relationships with communities nationwide.NoneLofthus exemplifies the very best in executive leadership and has demonstrated three decades of dedication to public service which have resulted in outstanding organizational achievements. As the U.S. Department of Justices Senior Management Official, he provides effective leadership, directing diverse and complicated financial and budgetary programs, human resources, procurement, facilities, security and information technology activities. His career in public service has been distinguished by an unfaltering dedication to lead, motivate and inspire people. His vision, adaptability and commitment to customer service enable him to direct organizations through many complex endeavors and times of uncertainty. He has transformed the departments administrative processes through innovative technologies and the recruitment and retention of talented and diverse leadership. On the financial side, since 2004, Lofthus accomplished a rare feat in that he was able to get clean audits for the department for 12 straight years and for nine straight years, the auditors report on internal control identified no material weaknesses at the consolidated level. Lofthus has played a central role in developing budget strategies in direct response to the initiatives of several Attorneys General in the areas of counterterrorism, national security and the administration of justice. He has provided unmatched leadership in initiatives to provide funding to state and local law enforcement entities throughout the department. Lofthus is well-known and respected in a variety of public and private arenas, and he is commonly sought out to advise and speak on a variety of challenging government-wide financial and budgetary-based initiatives.NoneNoneATFs Internet Investigations Center (IIC) is recognized for its outstanding determination, perseverance and subject-matter expertise to support ATFs work to combat internet-based firearms crimes and related violations. The team, in conjunction with department guidance, drafted ATFs internet investigations policy and established numerous standard operating procedures for ATFs investigative and intelligence footprint online. The recipients also provided current, pertinent training to law enforcement audiences both inside and outside of ATF. Through the use of advanced technology, coupled with finely honed analytic and investigative skills, IIC personnel made its mark on illegal firearms transactions on all levels of the internet. This work was not only commended by partner law enforcement agencies, but the team was also recognized by an illicit Darknet vendor that named ATF specifically as one of the reasons it ceased illegal firearms transactions on its website.NoneThe Antitrust Divisions victory against Apple Inc. for orchestrating a conspiracy to raise the prices of e-books represents one of the most significant civil litigation victories that the division has achieved in over a decade, and it has led to state attorneys general and private plaintiffs recovering on behalf of harmed consumers approximately $566 million in damages. The recipients represented the United States in trial against Apple in June 2013 and successfully defended the case against Apples appeal. In April 2010, when Apple launched its iBookstore and entered the e-books market, U.S. e-book prices rose uniformly, in some instances as much as 50 percent. The division launched an investigation into possible coordination among e-book publishers and Apple and, in April 2012, brought suit in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York alleging a conspiracy to raise e-book prices in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act. Over the course of the litigation, all the publishers settled with the federal government. However, Apple aggressively litigated the matter through a three-week trial in June 2013 before U.S. District Judge Denise Cote, who issued a 160-page order finding Apple liable for orchestrating a scheme among five of the six largest book publishers to raise e-book prices in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act. Apples vigorous efforts to pursue the matter on appeal ended in March 2016 when the Supreme Court of the United States (SCOTUS) rejected Apples petition for certiorari to review the Second Circuits decision affirming Judge Cotes order. The litigation of this action and the precedent created by the trial courts and Second Circuits decisions should deter those who in the future might contemplate violating U.S. antitrust laws.NoneThe recipients, through their leadership, dedication and tireless investigation of price fixing and bid rigging, are responsible for the historic prosecution of five of the worlds largest financial institutions that agreed to pay fines in excess of $2.7 billion. The investigation uncovered a conspiracy that affected the U.S. Dollar to Euro exchange rate. These currencies are at the heart of international commerce, and the conspiracy undermined the integrity and the competitiveness of foreign currency exchange markets which account for hundreds of billions of dollars of transactions every day. The companies responsible for actions that eliminated competition in the marketplace were held accountable for their illegal conduct, which will hopefully deter financial institutions from chasing profits without regard to fairness, the law or the public welfare.NoneIn Obergefell v. Hodges, SCOTUS struck down state bans on marriage equality that denied to same-sex couples and their children the protections and benefits of marriage. In doing so, SCOTUS granted LGBT individuals equal access to marriage and vindicated the Obama Administrations strong interest in the eradication of discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. This team is honored for its extraordinary work in this historic case. Under immense time pressures, the recipients worked collaboratively to craft a compelling, persuasive and successful legal brief on a seminal civil rights issue. The brief reiterated the departments US v. Windsor position that classifications based on sexual orientation should trigger heightened scrutiny and described the harm that the state bans inflicted on same-sex couples and their families. In June 2015, SCOTUS issued a powerful decision extending the right to marry to same-sex couples and joining the ranks of landmark civil rights pronouncements from the court.NoneOn June 20, 2013, DEA Special Agent James Terry Watson was stabbed to death during an attempted kidnapping and robbery perpetrated by an organized group of taxi drivers in Bogota. A team of investigators and prosecutors was assembled, and working with their Colombian counterparts, they quickly identified seven individuals responsible for the murder and subsequent destruction of evidence. In an example of teamwork and coordination at its best, a complaint was filed and arrest warrants were obtained for the suspects within four days of the crime; within 18 months, the defendants extraditions were secured and they were all convicted. Because of the diligent work of those assigned to the case, justice was served for the family of Special Agent Watson.NoneThe recipients are recognized for their involvement in Operation Torpedo, a precedent-setting investigation that used first-of-its-kind techniques to infiltrate the dark internet and identify individuals who, under the perceived cloak of anonymity, secretly congregated to trade images of children being sexually abused and to celebrate the sexual abuse of children. By developing and deploying a network investigative technique, with appropriate legal authority, investigators were able to identify members of three websites devoted to child pornography that were operating on an anonymous network. The investigation required round-the-clock efforts from agents, analysts and prosecutors, and rapid response to fast-breaking developments. Prosecutors successfully defended these novel investigations in court and have obtained convictions at every turn. The impact of this investigation cannot be overstated. It has pioneered investigative work into the dark web that has led to subsequent significant investigations by the Criminal Division and the FBI; the dismantling of more than 100 child exploitation websites; and the seizure of massive amounts of child exploitation material, the largest seizure of virtual currency to date and the discovery of 120 victims of child sexual exploitation.NoneNoneTo redress the BP/Deepwater Horizon disaster, the largest oil spill in U.S. history, this team successfully pursued the companies responsible for this multimillion-barrel oil spill. The recipients resolved the nations civil claims against those companies for more than $6.6 billion in civil penalties; more than $8 billion in natural resource damages; hundreds of millions of dollars in cleanup, assessment and other costs; and injunctive relief that should make for safer drilling operations in the Gulf of Mexico. Under applicable law, the majority of these funds will fuel restoration of natural resources and some economic redevelopment in the Gulf of Mexico region. The matter is the departments largest-ever environmental enforcement effort. The teams work also made it possible for the five Gulf states and their local governments to settle their economic damage claims for sums approaching another $5.9 billion.NoneIn October 2009, it was discovered that attorney Scott Rothstein was conducting one of the largest Ponzi schemes in American history through the operation of the Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, law firm of Rothstein Rosenfeldt & Adler P.A. (RRA). The basis of the scheme was the sale of securities in which investors purchased the rights to a stream of payments from corporate entities which ostensibly had reached confidential settlements with purported plaintiffs in sexual harassment, employment discrimination and whistleblower cases. Settlements were available for purchase in amounts ranging from hundreds of thousands to tens of millions of dollars. During the operation of the scheme, hundreds of investors remitted more than $1.2 billion to RRA, which funds were utilized to pay previous investors in the scheme to finance a lavish lifestyle for the participants, and to make political and charitable contributions which enhanced the prestige and visibility of RRA, thereby enhancing RRAs ability to attract new investors. During the ensuing six years of litigation, 29 defendants, including attorneys and public officials, were convicted and sentenced on charges including racketeering, wire fraud, money laundering, income tax fraud, campaign finance violations, obstruction of justice, extortion and civil rights violations. Additionally, through forfeiture proceedings instituted by the government, coupled with proceedings in bankruptcy court and other ancillary civil proceedings, more than $400 million in assets were ultimately recovered, resulting in full restitution to the defrauded investors.NoneFor upwards of a decade, Abu Hamza stood as one of the most powerful, dangerous and recognizable terrorist leaders on the planet. Through his oratorical skills and sophisticated use of the internet, he indoctrinated his young, impressionable followers with his murderous message, inspiring the likes of Richard Reid, Zacarias Moussaoui and Mohammed Siddiqui Kahn. Additionally, Abu Hamza himself engaged in acts of terror that spanned the globe including the December 1998 hostage-taking in Yemen, which included two U.S. citizens and left four victims dead; the attempt to establish a terrorist training camp for al Qaeda on U.S. soil in late 1999; sending of one of his devoted followers to Afghanistan in 2000 to train and fight with al Qaeda; and supporting the Taliban from 2000 to 2001. Abu Hamza was arrested in the United Kingdom in 2004, but fought extradition for nearly a decade before he was extradited in October 2012. In preparing for trial, the recipients analyzed massive volumes of evidence recovered from across the globe, and identified witnesses in multiple continents to build and solidify a criminal case. The team also engaged in classified and unclassified litigation leading to and during trial, working in close coordination with the U.S. intelligence community to protect national security equities. Overcoming the inherent challenges in prosecuting a case where the conduct occurred approximately 15 years earlier, and where the evidence and witnesses were spread across the globe, the team secured a conviction on all 11 counts. Furthermore, Abu Hamza has been permanently incapacitated from future terrorist acts.NoneThe recipients are recognized for their involvement in Operation Short Fuse (OSF), an innovative online undercover operation operated by the FBIs Seattle Division and WMD Directorate. OSF employs a highly specialized cadre of online covert employees and confidential human sources to detect, target and disrupt WMD threat actors operating in cyberspace. The operation works to fill a critical detection and intelligence gap by resolving the identity of subjects who have demonstrated the intent and capability to manufacture, distribute or purchase WMD while operating in anonymized, hidden marketplaces and forums devoted to the sale of prohibited items. OSF team members are subject matter experts in WMD investigations and the innovative use of online undercover techniques designed to pierce the veil of anonymity that most OSF subjects attempt to erect through the use of layered complex encryption and crypto-currency. To date, OSF has conducted undercover targeting operations in support of 95 FBI investigations, many of which began as a result of OSF intelligence collection. OSF has been responsible for the disruptions of 18 subjects who attempted to purchase, sell and/or use chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and explosive materials in the United States and across the globe. These disruptions, often executed in coordination with international partners, undoubtedly prevented a significant loss of innocent life that would have otherwise resulted absent this sustained and extraordinary law enforcement effort.NoneThis team receives the award for its exceptional work in the case of US v. Stephen M. Howells II and Nicole Vaisey, which led to the recovery of two young girls who had been abducted, held captive and abused; the identification of four additional children who had been victimized by Howells and Vaisey; and the seizure of recordings and images of the defendants sexual abuse of children, as well as a large volume of child pornography depicting the sexual abuse of hundreds of other children, including infants and toddlers. This teams herculean effort, thorough investigation and analysis, and exemplary advocacy led to the conviction of Howells and Vaisey on all charges and their sentences to 580 and 300 years of imprisonment, respectively, the aggregate statutory maximums.NoneThe team in US v. Henthorn is honored for its outstanding, innovative work in the investigation, trial and conviction of Harold Henthorn for pushing his wife to her death from a remote cliff to collect $4.5 million dollars in life insurance. Due to their dedication, painstaking work and powerful trial presentation, the recipients did what many thought was impossible by obtaining a conviction in this difficult and wholly circumstantial case. The team not only proved that Henthorn murdered his second wife but that he had also murdered his first wife some 20 years earlier. Through the course of hundreds of witness interviews, thousands of hours of work, meticulous analysis of computer forensic evidence, cell tower records and bank records, the team decisively proved that Henthorn carefully planned and executed two cold-blooded murders. Furthermore, the team convinced the jury to hold Henthorn accountable and found justice for the victims and their families.NoneThis team receives the award for the historicprosecution of the former Los Angeles County Sheriff and 17 other law enforcement officers who obstructed a federal investigation and used excessive force against those they were charged with protecting. The recipients convincingly showed that no one is above the law; just as important, they showed that no one is beneath the protections of the law. The team proved through its tireless efforts and perseverance that the department will uphold civil rights for all Americans and that attempts at obstructing federal investigations will be taken seriously.NoneThe Washington Metro Child Exploitation Task Force has played an instrumental role in identifying, disrupting and dismantling the most egregious perpetrators in child exploitation and human trafficking within the greater Washington, D.C., metropolitan area and beyond its area of responsibilities. This team is recognized for its extraordinary dedication, innovative techniques and commitment in identifying and prosecuting these offenders. During 2014 and 2015, the work of the recipients resulted in the rescue of numerous children who were victims of ongoing abuse and exploitation. The task force also assisted in identifying and locating more than 60 victims of sexual abuse and child pornography.NoneNoneThis team led a comprehensive review of the impact that an aging inmate population has on the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP). The elimination of parole, use of mandatory minimum sentences, increases in average sentence length over the past three decades and an increase in white collar offenders and sex offenders, among other things, have contributed to the aging federal inmate population. The recipients were in the field for eight months, interviewing nearly 170 officials and staff from each of the BOPs eight divisions, as well as 13 institutions. The team conducted site visits of institutions at all security levels, and did extensive document reviews and quantitative analysis spanning a five-year period. Policies applying to various aspects of the care of aging inmates were numerous and scattered among different program areas. To overcome limitations in available data, the team conducted wide-ranging quantitative analyses. The OIG report, issued in May 2015, found that aging inmates are more costly to incarcerate due to increased medical needs, that the physical infrastructure of BOP institutions limits the availability of appropriate housing for aging inmates and that BOP does not provide programming opportunities designed to meet their particular needs. The report also found that aging inmates engage in fewer misconduct incidents while incarcerated and, based on statistical review, appear to have a lower rate of re-arrest once released. Beyond merely identifying these issues, the report provided eight concrete recommendations to address them in order to assist BOP in managing its aging inmate population. After reviewing the report and recommendations, the BOP created formed an interdisciplinary task force to address a number of the recommendations.NoneNoneNoneNoneOperation Driving Dirty dismantled the Consolidated Priority Organization Target linked to transnational drug trafficking organizations, to include the Los Urabeos, at an unprecedented rate. The recipients worked extensively with foreign DEA offices and host country counterparts in China, Hong Kong, Guatemala, Venezuela, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Spain, Panama, Canada and the Netherlands. The international partnerships were unparalleled as Operation Driving Dirty led to significant worldwide seizures, arrests and prosecutions. As a result of leads provided to the DEA Caracas Country Office, Venezuelan counterparts seized $7 million, deemed one of the largest currency seizures in that countrys history. Additionally, while working with its partners at the U.S. Attorneys Office, the team conducted a substantial financial investigation into the drug trafficking organizations money laundering operations, which led to the civil forfeiture of numerous bank accounts. This cooperative effort with the U.S. Attorneys Office led to the arrest and prosecution of over 50 high-level defendants to include the regional priority organization target, Ronen Nahmani, who was identified as one of the largest synthetic marijuana distributors in the United States. To this end, Operation Driving Dirty led to seizures totaling 6,349 kilograms of cocaine, 28 kilograms of heroin, 15 pounds of methamphetamine, 100 pounds of synthetic marijuana and precursor chemicals, 21 weapons and $30 million.NoneIn December 2011, FBI opened a five-year investigation into ABN Universal Inc. Early investigative techniques revealed the U.S.-based owner and operator of ABN was Alexander Brazhnikov. Through an exhaustive use of human sources, video surveillance, forensic reconstruction, grand jury subpoenas, search warrants, Title III surveillance of emails and computer analysis, the investigation revealed that ABN was procuring dual-use microelectronics from U.S.-based manufacturers on behalf of Russian companies directly associated with the Russian military and intelligence services. Moreover, employees of ABN were devaluing the price of exported products to Russia and using front company addresses in Moscow, an offshore virtual private network and an international network of shell companies to conceal the intended end-users from U.S. law enforcement. The investigative team worked diligently to overcome each of these obfuscation techniques to ultimately reveal the totality of Brazhnikovs criminal offenses. As a result of the investigation, in June 2014, an arrest warrant for Brazhnikov was issued for his illegal smuggling of export controlled U.S.-sourced goods to Russia and for conducting $65 million in money laundering. In June 2015, Brazhnikov pleaded guilty to conspiracy to smuggle goods from the U.S., conspiracy to commit money laundering and conspiracy to violate the International Emergency Economic Powers Act. Brazhnikov also admitted to smuggling microelectronics to Russian defense contractors known to supply the Russian military and intelligence services, to include two Russian nuclear warhead design institutes. As a result of his guilty plea, the District Court of New Jersey issued a money judgment against Brazhnikov for $65 million.NoneNoneNoneNoneOver the last year, the departments cybersecurity team has made significant enhancements to address the rapidly-changing cyber threat landscape, as the departments mission makes it a high-value target for adversaries attacking U.S. national security assets. This team implemented and continues to manage solutions which thwart adversaries attempts to breach the departments network, gain access to sensitive information and critically harm national security. These solutions provide the department with the ability to detect and mitigate advanced persistent threats, monitor malicious encrypted internet traffic, prevent data loss by encrypting personally identifiable information. This fiscal year, the teams enhancements stopped 55,000 malicious e-mails and 900 malicious web sessions. Also as a result, fewer cyber incidents occur, fewer remediation efforts are required and the department realized $8 million in cost avoidance. In addition, the team developed robust internal applications, Security Posture Dashboard Reporting and the Cyber Security Assessment and Management system to continuously monitor and analyze department-wide cybersecurity posture and Federal Information Security Management Act compliance. These applications allow for the transparent measurement, comparison and analysis of each components security environment. Without the efforts of this team, the department could see a large-scale cybersecurity incident, resulting in incalculable damage to the departments personnel, information and mission.NoneNoneNoneNoneUS v. Irek Ilgiz Hamidullin was a first-of-its-kind, Article III prosecution of a foreign terrorist who was captured in November 2009 by the U.S. military on a battlefield in Afghanistan. The investigation and prosecution lasted five years from capture to conviction, and the case required a massive interagency team of attorneys, law enforcement agents and support staff to work together, effectively navigating complex and unique challenges in a sensitive national security matter. Hamidullin was convicted by a federal jury of all 15 indicted counts, which included charges of providing material support to terrorists, attempted murder of U.S. military personnel, conspiracy to use a weapon of mass destruction and possession of a firearm in connection with a crime of violence. In December 2015, Hamidullin was sentenced to serve life plus 30 years in prison.NoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneThis team secured the conviction and 45-year sentence of Farid Fata, an oncologist who deliberately misdiagnosed patients with a variety of conditions so that he could fraudulently bill Medicare and private insurers for millions of dollars worth of unnecessary infusions, injections and other cancer testing and treatments. Acting on a tip, the recipients investigated and corroborated the health care fraud allegations, arresting Fata and shutting down his six Detroit-area practice locations. At the time of his arrest, Fata had over 1,700 active patients and over 16,000 historical patients. After his arrest, agents, prosecutors and staff worked around the clock to ensure that all of the patients, past and present, received their medical files and were routed to major medical centers for continued care. Over the course of the investigation, the team was able to prove that Fata had victimized more than 550 patients. In September 2014, Fata pleaded guilty to 13 counts of health care fraud charges, one count of health care kickback conspiracy and money laundering. In pleading guilty, Fata admitted to administering unnecessary chemotherapy infusions, iron infusions and human growth factors to patients; ordering unnecessary cancer tests; accepting kickbacks to refer patients for home health care services; and laundering money from his infusion fraud scheme to promote a new cancer testing fraud scheme.NoneThe recipients are recognized for their involvement in the Northern Ohio Heroin and Opioid Task Force, which has developed and implemented a community action plan to combat a healthcare and law enforcement crisis. Heroin overdose deaths increased in Cuyahoga County, Ohios largest county, by more than 400 percent between 2007 and 2015, with nearly 200 people fatally overdosing last year. Convened by the U.S. Attorneys Office, the task force, comprised of prosecutors, doctors, investigators, educators, addiction specialists and community members, engaged in a groundbreaking collaboration that cuts through traditional boundaries. By dealing with the heroin and opioid epidemic simultaneously through the prisms of law enforcement, treatment, healthcare policy and education, this group is challenging the idea that each discipline must work in its own silo. Their Smart on Crime approach is literally saving lives throughout the community.NoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneThis team is honored for its contributions to the Kleptocracy Asset Recovery Initiative through its civil forfeiture of bribe proceeds paid to the former President of the Republic of Korea, Chun Doo Hwan. After seizing power in 1979, Chun went on to earn a salary of approximately $20,000 per year from 1980 through 1988. When he was ultimately convicted of corruption crimes by South Korea in 1997, the trial court established that Chun had received more than $200 million in bribes during his presidency and ordered him to pay restitution in that amount. Stymied in their efforts to collect on Chuns restitution order, in 2013, Korean prosecutors turned to the department for assistance. Undaunted by the age of the evidence, the team pieced together financial and testimonial evidence sufficient to show that a portion of Chuns bribe proceeds were paid through intermediaries, transferred out of Korea in the names of shell corporations and ultimately invested into various properties in the United States. On Nov. 9, 2015, Attorney General Lynch celebrated the successful conclusion of this case by presenting the Korean Minister of Justice with an embossed copy of a forfeiture order and congratulating South Korea on having recovered more than $28.7 million as a result of the teams efforts.NoneNoneNoneNoneNone