  WASHINGTON  Following a thorough investigation, the Justice Department today announced its findings that the East Haven Police Department (EHPD) has engaged in a pattern or practice of discrimination against Latinos in violation of the Constitution and federal law.   Launched in September 2009, the investigation was conducted under provisions of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, and Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.   Specifically, the investigation found that EHPD intentionally targets Latinos for traffic enforcement and treats Latino drivers more harshly after traffic stops in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment, Title VI and the Safe Streets Act.   The investigation further found that EHPD has willfully enabled discrimination by failing to put in place basic law enforcement practices and procedures used by law enforcement agencies across the country to prevent discrimination.   The Department of Justice findings are based on:  The department also found a number of serious deficiencies in EHPDs management, oversight and accountability systems that have enabled discriminatory policing by EHPD officers.   These deficiencies include:  In addition, although not making formal findings, the department noted two areas of serious concern regarding allegations of use of excessive force and unconstitutional searches and seizures.   The department also expressed concern with EPHD leadership creating and condoning a hostile and intimidating environment for anyone seeking to provide relevant information in this investigation.      These findings show that the East Haven Police Department systematically violated the constitutional rights of people it is supposed to serve and protect.   By failing to have in place the most basic systems designed to protect individuals from unlawful discrimination, EHPD has fallen short of its obligations, said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division. The recommendations we make will put the police department on a path towards correcting the serious deficiencies that have long plagued the department and regaining the communitys trust.   The residents of East Haven should not have to choose between effective crime-fighting and constitutional policing, said U.S. Attorney David Fein. By addressing the serious deficiencies we uncovered, EHPD will not only ensure constitutional policing, but will also give the men and women of EHPD the support they need to combat crime effectively.   The Justice Departments comprehensive and independent investigation was conducted by department attorneys, investigators and police executives and other experts who interviewed EHPD officers and residents in East Haven.   The investigation also involved exhaustive review of documents and data, including EHPD policies and procedures, incident reports and traffic stop activity.   This civil investigation was separate from any ongoing criminal investigations of EHPD. NoneNoneNone