NoneNoneRamirez-Trevino, made his initial appearance today before U.S. Magistrate Judge Deborah A. Robinson in the District of Columbia, after being extradited to the United States on Dec. 18. Ramirez-Trevino was ordered detained in federal custody pending trial. Ramirez-Trevino had been in the custody of Mexican authorities pending extradition since his arrest on Aug. 17, 2013. NoneNonea shipment of approximately 10 tons of cocaine, seized by Mexican authorities in October 2007, and a 2,400 kilogram shipment of cocaine seized by the Panamanian authorities in November 2007.  The Gulf Cartel is one of the most violent and brutal drug trafficking organizations, posing a threat to the citizens of both the United States and Mexico, said Acting Assistant Attorney General John P. Cronan. This significant extradition is the result of our strong law enforcement relationship with the Government of Mexico, and the Department of Justices continuing efforts to combat international narcotics trafficking.  The extradition of Mario Ramirez-Trevino is another demonstration of the outstanding partnership we have with the Government of Mexico, said Chief Williams. We appreciate and recognize the significant efforts of our Mexican partners in the pursuit of justice and the dismantlement of drug trafficking organizations and their command elements. NoneNone According to statements made in court, Ramirez-Trevino was allegedly the former leader of the Gulf Cartel when it worked in close partnership with Los Zetas, collectively known as The Company. The Company worked independently and with other drug trafficking organizations to finance, purchase, transport, and distribute cocaine and marijuana destined for the United States. The Company imported cocaine from Colombia and elsewhere into Mexico, where it was stored until its eventual importation into the United States. The Company also sourced marijuana from the mountainous regions in Mexico for importation into the United States. To accomplish its drug trafficking objectives, the Company relied on acts of violence and enlisted a group of former military officials known as Los Zetas to carry out those acts of violence. Ramirez-Trevino was actively involved in overseeing The Companys drug trafficking activities in Mexico.  None The Department expresses its gratitude and appreciation to the Government of Mexico for its cooperation and assistance in the apprehension and extradition of Ramirez-Trevino.  The charges in the indictment are merely allegations, and all defendants are presumed innocent unless proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law. The investigation was led by the DEAs Houston Field Division and the DEA Bilateral Investigation Unit. The case is being prosecuted by trial attorneys from the Criminal Divisions Narcotic and Dangerous Drug Section. The Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs provided significant assistance in the extradition. 