A criminal complaint was filed in the Southern District of Georgia today charging Reality Leigh Winner, 25, a federal contractor from Augusta, Georgia, with removing classified material from a government facility and mailing it to a news outlet, in violation of 18 U.S.C. Section 793(e). Winner was arrested by the FBI at her home on Saturday, June 3, and appeared in federal court in Augusta this afternoon.Exceptional law enforcement efforts allowed us quickly to identify and arrest the defendant, said Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein. Releasing classified material without authorization threatens our nations security and undermines public faith in government. People who are trusted with classified information and pledge to protect it must be held accountable when they violate that obligation.According to the allegations contained in the criminal complaint:Winner is a contractor with Pluribus International Corporation assigned to a U.S. government agency facility in Georgia. She has been employed at the facility since on or about February 13, and has held a Top Secret clearance during that time. On or about May 9, Winner printed and improperly removed classified intelligence reporting, which contained classified national defense information from an intelligence community agency, and unlawfully retained it. Approximately a few days later, Winner unlawfully transmitted by mail the intelligence reporting to an online news outlet.Once investigative efforts identified Winner as a suspect, the FBI obtained and executed a search warrant at her residence. According to the complaint, Winner agreed to talk with agents during the execution of the warrant. During that conversation, Winner admitted intentionally identifying and printing the classified intelligence reporting at issue despite not having a "need to know," and with knowledge that the intelligence reporting was classified. Winner further admitted removing the classified intelligence reporting from her office space, retaining it, and mailing it from Augusta, Georgia, to the news outlet, which she knew was not authorized to receive or possess the documents.An individual charged by criminal complaint is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty at some later criminal proceedings.The prosecution is being handled by Trial Attorney Julie A. Edelstein of the U.S. Department of Justices National Security Divisions Counterintelligence and Export Control Section, and Assistant U.S. Attorney Jennifer Solari of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of Georgia. The investigation is being conducted by the FBI.NoneNone 