  Following their tour of the Tulalip Reservation, Deputy Attorney General David W. Ogden and Associate Attorney General Tom Perrelli today announced that more than $5 million has been awarded to tribal communities in Washington. The Department of Justice awarded more than $2.16 million in Recovery Act funds to three Washington Tribal Governments by the Office on Violence Against Women (OVW) and more than $3.3 million in FY2009 Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) grants to 16 Washington tribal law enforcement agencies.  "The Department of Justice is well aware that Indian Country is struggling with complex law enforcement issues involving violent crime, violence against women and crimes against children, and that tribal communities are doing what they can with limited resources," said Deputy Attorney General Ogden. "We stand here as partners in this fight and are pleased to demonstrate our commitment with these grants for tribal communities in the State of Washington."  "Among the things that make me feel confident about this administrations focus on Indian Country is that much of this money was specifically designated within the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act," said Associate Attorney General Perrelli. "These funds will have an immediate impact on the quality of services offered to survivors and their children by providing advocacy and support services for those who need to be kept safe in emergency situations, and for victims who choose to leave their abusive relationships."  The Justice Department officials were in Seattle for the first of two working sessions with tribal leadership and law enforcement experts leading up to the Attorney Generals Tribal Nations Listening Conference, part of an ongoing Justice Department initiative to increase engagement, coordination and action on tribal justice in Indian Country.  The grants will help combat violence against women in tribal communities and will support efforts by tribal police to reduce crime and disorder, and to enhance the services that they provide.None  Recovery Act Violence Against Women Grants  The landmark American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Recovery Act), signed into law by President Obama, provides the Justice Departments Office on Violence Against Women with $20.8 million for the Indian Tribal Governments Program to decrease the number of violent crimes committed against Indian women, help Indian tribes use their independent authority to respond to crimes of violence against Indian women and make sure that people who commit violent crimes against Indian women are held responsible for their actions. Today, the Department of Justice awarded more than $2.16 million in Recovery Act funds to three Washington Tribal Governments. The award period is 36 months:NoneNoneNoneNone  FY2009 Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Grants  Todays COPS grants were awarded under the Tribal Resources Grant Program (TRGP), which is administered by the Justice Departments Office of Community Oriented Policing Services. The grants can be used to hire new officers, purchase crime-fighting technology systems and basic law enforcement equipment and can also be used to procure training and technical assistance. Today, the Department awarded more than $3.3 million to 16 Washington tribal law enforcement agencies to support efforts by tribal police to reduce crime and disorder and to enhance the services that they provide.  A number of tribal police departments in Washington received specific funding to hire new officers, for a total of more than $1.3 million to hire 7 new officers:  Ten tribal police departments also received more than $2 million for equipment and training:  The grants announced today are part of a broader federal initiative to bolster the capacity of tribal law enforcement agencies. All federally recognized tribes with established police departments were eligible to apply for funding.