Two former Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) task force officers were charged in a superseding indictment unsealed today with drug conspiracy, weapons offenses, robbery, obstruction of justice and falsification of records in federal investigations.Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, Special Agent in Charge Jeffrey S. Sallet of the FBIs New Orleans Field Office, Special Agent in Charge Monte A. Cason of the Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General (DOJ OIG) Dallas Field Office and Deputy Chief Inspector Brian M. McKnight of the DEAs Office of Professional Responsibility (OPR) made the announcement.Karl Emmett Newman, 49, of Kentwood, Louisiana, and Johnny Jacob Domingue, 27, of Maurepas, Louisiana, were indicted by a federal grand jury in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana on Oct. 7, 2016. Newman is charged with one count of conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute cocaine and oxycodone, one count of interference with commerce by robbery, one count of possessing a firearm during a crime of violence, one count of possessing a firearm during a drug trafficking crime, two counts of unlawful conversion of property by a government officer or employee, two counts of falsifying records in a federal investigation and one count of obstruction of justice. Domingue is charged with one count of falsifying records in a federal investigation. Newman was originally charged on May 13, 2016, in a now-unsealed indictment, and was arrested on that date. Domingue was arrested on a now-unsealed criminal complaint on May 12, 2016.In addition to serving as DEA task force officers, Newman and Domingue previously served as deputies with the Tangipahoa Parish, Louisiana, Sheriffs Office.The charges and allegations contained in an indictment are only accusations. The defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.The FBI, DOJ OIG and DEA-OPR investigated the case. Assistant Chief Diidri Robinson and Trial Attorney Antonio Pozos of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section are prosecuting the case.