  A health care worker who sold Medicare beneficiary information to Detroit-area home health agency operators as part of a $24.7 million home health care fraud conspiracy pleaded guilty today for his role in the scheme, which sought to profit by billing for home healthcare services that were medically unnecessary and not provided.  The guilty plea was announced by Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Michigan Barbara L. McQuade, Special Agent in Charge Robert D. Foley III of the FBIs Detroit Field Office and Special Agent in Charge Lamont Pugh III of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General (HHS-OIG), Chicago Regional Office.  Clarence Cooper, 54, of Detroit, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Victoria A. Roberts in the Eastern District of Michigan to one count of conspiracy to commit health care fraud.  According to court documents, Cooper and others conspired to defraud Medicare through purported home health care companies operating in the Detroit area, including now-defunct First Choice Home Health Care Services Inc. and Reliance Home Care, LLC. Cooper admitted that he sold Medicare information he obtained from Detroit-area Medicare beneficiaries to other conspirators at these and other health care companies, knowing that it was to be used to submit claims to Medicare for home health services that were not medically necessary and/or not provided. According to court documents, from 2008 through May 2012, Cooper sold co-conspirators the Medicare information of hundreds of Medicare beneficiaries, at $200 to $300 per beneficiary, and this Medicare information was used at these companies to bill Medicare for nearly $1 million in home health care services.  Court documents show that the larger scheme in which Cooper participated resulted in more than $24.7 million in claims to Medicare for the cost of home health services, psychotherapy and other medical services.  Cooper faces a maximum potential penalty of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. Sentencing is currently scheduled for July 23, 2013.  This case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney William G. Kanellis and Assistant Chief Gejaa Gobena of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section. It was investigated by the FBI and HHS-OIG, and was brought as part of the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, supervised by the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of Michigan.  Since its inception in March 2007, the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, now operating in nine cities across the country, has charged more than 1,480 defendants who have collectively billed the Medicare program for more than $4.8 billion. In addition, HHSs Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, working in conjunction with HHS-OIG, is taking steps to increase accountability and decrease the presence of fraudulent providers.  To learn more about the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT), go to: www.stopmedicarefraud.gov.