Six alleged members of the Crips have been indicted for their alleged roles in a racketeering conspiracy involving murder, attempted murder and other offenses in Nebraska, announced Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and the U.S. Attorney Deborah R. Gilg of the District of Nebraska.A federal grand jury returned the superseding indictment on Jan. 27, 2016, and it was unsealed today in the District of Nebraska. It charges Jerell Haynie, aka Bootie and T; Gregory Bahati, aka Pooh Bear and Murk 2x; Dionte Dortch, aka Killa Tay; Kendell Tealer; Brandon Heard, aka B; and Julio Arias, aka Rudy, all of Omaha, Nebraska, with conspiracy to participate in racketeering activity. Haynie is also charged with one count of attempted murder in aid of racketeering, one count of attempt to commit assault with a dangerous weapon in aid of racketeering and one count of discharging a firearm during a crime of violence; Heard is also charged with three counts of distribution of cocaine base; Bahati is also charged with one count of threats in aid of racketeering and one count of brandishing a firearm during a crime of violence; Dortch is also charged with one count of felon in possession of a firearm, one count of witness tampering and one count of attempted obstruction of justice; and Arias is also charged with three counts of distribution of cocaine base. As of this morning, five of the defendants are in custody; Heard is a fugitive.NoneNoneThe Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives field office in Omaha and the Omaha Police Department are investigating the case. Trial Attorneys Yvonne L. Garcia and Joseph A. Cooley of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Matthew Molsen and Michael Norris of the District of Nebraska are prosecuting the case.The charges contained in the superseding indictment are merely accusations, and the defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.