None  Of the $2.2 million that STX must pay, $200,000 will go to the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation, which partners in Florida with the Pinellas County Environmental Fund (PCEF). PCEF has funded numerous wide-ranging projects related to the protection, restoration and enhancement of fish and wildlife habitat in the Tampa Bay area. The court also ordered STX to implement a detailed environmental compliance plan, including monitoring of its fleet-wide operations for the next four years, training for crew members, and engineering alterations to protect gulf and ocean waters.NoneNoneNone  "Dumping pollution directly overboard into the ocean and lying to investigators is unacceptable and will not be tolerated," said John C. Cruden, Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division. "This sentence should make clear to the shipping industry that the Justice Department along with our federal partners will continue to prosecute companies and crew members if they fail to abide by laws protecting the environment."  U.S. Attorney A. Brian Albritton stated, "Keeping our ocean waters clean and free from pollution is extremely important. Those who recklessly foul our waters must pay a penalty and take measures to make sure it does not happen again."  "This outcome sends a clear message that it doesnt pay to intentionally pollute and intentionally disregard international pollution prevention standards," said Captain Timothy Close, Commander of U.S. Coast Guard Sector St. Petersburg. "The U.S. Coast Guard will pursue all such cases and will continue to work closely with the U.S. Attorney and the Department of Justice to prosecute offenders."  "The defendants used the ocean as a dumping ground for waste oil and then tried to cover it up," said Maureen O'Mara Special Agent in Charge, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). "The oceans must be protected and marine shipping companies and crew members that break the law will be prosecuted."  The case was investigated by the U.S. Coast Guard, Coast Guard Investigative Service and the EPA. It was prosecuted by Cherie L. Krigsman, Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of Florida; Leslie E. Lehnert, Trial Attorney for the Justice Departments Environmental Crimes Section; and Lieutenant William George, U.S. Coast Guard.