  A former senior executive of a French power and transportation company has been charged in a second superseding indictment for his alleged participation in a scheme to pay bribes to foreign government officials.  Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, Acting U.S. Attorney Deirdre M. Daly of the District of Connecticut and Assistant Director in Charge Valerie Parlave of the FBIs Washington Field Office made the announcement.  Lawrence Hoskins, 62, a former senior vice president for the Asia region for the French company, was charged in the District of Connecticut with conspiring to violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and to launder money, as well as substantive FCPA and money laundering violations. William Pomponi, a former executive of the Connecticut-based subsidiary of the power and transportation company who was previously charged in a superseding indictment on April 30, 2013, was charged with Hoskins in the second superseding indictment.  Frederic Pierucci, a current company executive who was previously charged in this case, pleaded guilty yesterday to one count of conspiring to violate the FCPA and one count of violating the FCPA. Charges against Pierucci were initially unsealed on April 16, 2013, along with a guilty plea by David Rothschild, a former vice president of regional sales at the Connecticut-based subsidiary, in connection with the bribery scheme. Rothschild pleaded guilty on Nov. 2, 2012.  According to the charges, the defendants, together with others, allegedly paid bribes to officials in Indonesia  including a member of the Indonesian Parliament and high-ranking members of Perusahaan Listrik Negara (PLN), the state-owned and state-controlled electricity company in Indonesia  in exchange for assistance in securing a $118 million contract, known as the Tarahan project, for the company and its consortium partner to provide power-related services for the citizens of Indonesia. To conceal the bribes, the defendants retained two consultants purportedly to provide legitimate consulting services on behalf of the power company and its subsidiaries in connection with the Tarahan project. The indictment, however, alleges that the primary purpose for hiring the consultants was to use the consultants to pay bribes to Indonesian officials.  The first consultant retained by the defendants allegedly received hundreds of thousands of dollars in his Maryland bank account to be used to bribe the member of Parliament. The consultant then allegedly transferred the bribe money to a bank account in Indonesia for the benefit of the official. According to court documents, emails between Hoskins, Pomponi, Pierucci, Rothschild and their co-conspirators discuss in detail the use of the first consultant to funnel bribes to the member of Parliament and the influence that the member of Parliament could exert over the Tarahan project.None  An indictment is merely an accusation, and defendants are presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.  This case is being investigated by FBI agents who are part of the Washington Field Offices dedicated FCPA squad, with assistance from the Meriden, Conn., Resident Agency of the FBI. Significant assistance was provided by the Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs, and the Department has also worked closely with its law enforcement counterparts in Indonesia at the Komisi Pemberantasan Korupsi (Corruption Eradication Commission) and deeply appreciates KPKs assistance in this matter.  The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Daniel S. Kahn of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney David E. Novick of the District of Connecticut.NoneSecond Superseding Indictment