  WASHINGTON  A Texas man was sentenced today to serve 330 months in prison for his participation in an international child pornography distribution ring, announced Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney Joseph H. Hogsett of the Southern District of Indiana.  Jeremy Daniel Labrec, 22, of Lubbock, Texas, was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Jane Magnus-Stinson in the Southern District of Indiana. In addition to his prison term, Labrec was sentenced to serve lifetime supervised release.  Labrecs prosecution is the result of Operation Bulldog, a multi-jurisdictional effort to dismantle and prosecute the members of an international child pornography distribution ring. The ring was discovered in the course of investigating the production and distribution of child pornography by David Bostic, a Bloomington, Ind., man, who pleaded guilty to multiple charges in June 2011 and was sentenced in November 2011 to serve 315 years in prison. A total of nine defendants have been prosecuted in the Southern District of Indiana for their participation in the group, and all nine defendants have been sentenced to prison.None  This case was brought as part of Project Safe Childhood, a nationwide initiative to combat the growing epidemic of child sexual exploitation and abuse launched in May 2006 by the Department of Justice. Led by U.S. Attorneys Offices and the Criminal Divisions Child Exploitation and Obscenity Section (CEOS), Project Safe Childhood marshals federal, state and local resources to better locate, apprehend and prosecute individuals who exploit children via the Internet, as well as to identify and rescue victims. For more information about Project Safe Childhood, please visit www.projectsafechildhood.gov.  This case was investigated by the FBI, with local assistance from the Indiana State Police, the Kokomo, Ind., Police Department and the Brownsburg, Ind., Police Department.  The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney A. Brant Cook of the Southern District of Indiana and Trial Attorney Michael Grant of CEOS.