  Fourteen  individuals were charged in three indictments in Puerto Rico with conspiracy to  commit identification fraud, money laundering, aggravated identity theft and  passport fraud in connection with their alleged roles in a scheme to traffic the  identities and corresponding identity documents of Puerto Rican U.S. citizens.   Assistant  Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal  Division, U.S. Attorney Rosa Emilia Rodriguez-Velez for the District of Puerto  Rico, Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary Thomas Winkowski of U.S. Immigration  and Customs Enforcement (ICE), which oversees Homeland Security Investigations  (HSI), Chief Postal Inspector Guy Cottrell of the U.S. Postal Inspection Service  (USPIS), Chief Richard Weber of the Internal Revenue Criminal Investigation  Division (IRSCID) and Director Bill Miller of the State Departments Diplomatic  Security Service (DSS) made the announcement.   The  multi-count indictments were returned by a federal grand jury on Aug. 6, 2014.    Since that time, five of the defendants  have been found and arrested (four in Puerto Rico and one in Florida).   They will be arraigned in federal court this  week.   Arrest warrants have been issued  for the remaining defendants, who will make their initial appearances in federal  court in the districts in which they are arrested.   According to  the indictments, from at least July 2008 through April 2014, conspirators in the  mainland United States and in Puerto Rico sold the identities and corresponding  Social Security cards, Puerto Rico birth certificates and other identification  documents of Puerto Rican U.S. citizens to undocumented aliens and others  residing in the mainland United States.   Specifically, the indictments allege that individuals located in  the Caguas, Rio Piedras and San Juan areas of Puerto Rico (suppliers) obtained  Puerto Rican identities and corresponding identity documents, and conspirators  in various locations in the United States (identity brokers) solicited customers  for those identities and documents.   The  identity brokers allegedly sold the identities and documents to the customers  for prices ranging from $700 to $2,500 per set of Social Security cards and  corresponding Puerto Rico birth certificates.   According to  the indictment, the identity brokers ordered the identity documents from the  suppliers by making coded telephone calls, including using terms such as  shirts, uniforms or clothes to refer to identity documents.   The suppliers generally requested that the  identity brokers send payment for the documents through a money transfer service  to names provided by the suppliers.   The  conspirators frequently confirmed payee names and addresses, money transfer  control numbers and trafficked identities via text messaging.   The suppliers allegedly retrieved the  payments from the money transfer service and sent the identity documents to the  brokers using express, priority or regular U.S. Mail.   According to  the indictments, once the identity brokers received the identity documents, they  delivered the documents to the customers and obtained the remaining payment from  the customers.   The brokers generally  kept the second payment for themselves as profit.   Some identity brokers allegedly assumed a  Puerto Rican identity themselves and used that identity in connection with the  trafficking operation.   As alleged  in the indictments, the customers generally obtained the identity documents to  assume the identity of Puerto Rican U.S. citizens and obtain additional  identification documents, such as state drivers licenses.   Some customers allegedly obtained the  documents to commit financial fraud and others attempted to obtain U.S.  passports.  The  indictments alleges that various identity brokers were operating in  Indianapolis,   Columbus and Seymour,  Indiana; Aurora, Illinois; Bartow, Florida; Lawrenceville, Jonesboro and  Norcross, Georgia; Salisbury, Maryland; Columbus, Ohio; Lawrence and  Springfield, Massachusetts; Grand Rapids, Michigan; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania;  Houston, Texas; Guymon, Oklahoma; Huron, South Dakota and Albertville, Alabama.   The charges  announced today are the result of Operation Island Express II, an ongoing,  nationally-coordinated investigation led by the ICE-HSI Chicago Office and  USPIS, DSS and IRS-CID offices in Chicago, in coordination with the ICE-HSI San  Juan Office.   The Illinois Secretary of  State Police provided substantial assistance.    The ICE-HSI Attach office in the Dominican Republic, National Drug  Intelligence Center - Document and Media Exploitation Branch and International  Organized Crime Intelligence and Operations Center (IOC-2) provided invaluable  assistance, as well as various ICE, USPIS, DSS and IRS CI offices around the  country.   The case is  being prosecuted by the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section,  with the assistance of the Criminal Divisions Human Rights and Special  Prosecution Section, and the support of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the  District of Puerto Rico. None None    An  indictment is merely a formal accusation. Defendants are presumed innocent  unless proven guilty in a court of law.