NoneMichael Hopson, aka Hop aka Big Homie, 39, was convicted today by a federal jury sitting in the Eastern District of Virginia of racketeering conspiracy  including acts of murder, attempted murder, robbery, obstruction of justice  murder in aid of racketeering, conspiracy and attempted murder in aid of racketeering, as well as various narcotics charges.According to evidence presented at trial, Hopson was the founding member and leader (OG) of the Black P-Stones gang, also referred to as the P-Stone Bloods and Cobra Stones, which operates primarily in the Denbigh area of Newport News. The Black P-Stones engage in violent crimes including murders, illegal drug trafficking, obstruction of justice and robberies that often target narcotics dealers and use stolen currency and inventory to fund gang members court dues.According to the trial evidence, as the OG, Hopson planned, directed and participated in recruiting members, including minors; collected monthly gang dues; carried out and ordered violent crimes; ordered and presided over meetings; and organized the gangs distribution marijuana. Trial evidence also demonstrated that Hopson used his position as a security officer at Denbigh High School to recruit minors to join the Black P-Stones and sell narcotics to high school students.Trial evidence showed that Hopson personally ordered multiple shootings and murders between October 2007 and June 2009. On October 31, 2007, Hopson ordered Black P-Stones members to murder A.J., a member of the rival Thugs Relations street gang. At Hopsons direction, the armed Black P-Stones members attempted to lure him from the home, but were unsuccessful.On November 6, 2007, a Black P-Stones member, acting on Hopsons orders, lured E.S., a 17-year-old Black P-Stones member, to a Newport News location and killed him. Hopson had given the green light to kill E.S. because of his friendships with Thug Relations members, and rewarded the Black P-Stone member with a promotion.On December 10, 2008, Hopson authorized the murder of J.W., a Crip who had been disrespectful to members of the Black P-Stones. Acting on those orders, two Black P-Stones members went to the home of J.W. and fired multiple rounds into the home. J.W.s father, who was sitting in the living room when the assault occurred, was hit with debris from the bullet shrapnel and suffered injury to his eye.On March 9, 2009, Hopson ordered the murder of two members of 10-1 Mafia Crips, a rival gang of the Black P-Stones, in reponse to the beating of a Black P-Stones member. Acting on Hopsons orders, two Black P-Stones members shot multiple times into the home of the two 10-1 Mafia Crips. On April 17, 2009, Hopson ordered two Black P-Stones members to fire multiple rounds into a home he knew to be occupied because the individuals inside the home were disrespectful to him.On June 12, 2009, Hopson ordered the murder of A.J., a Thug Relations member who was responsible for the murder of a Black P-Stones member. A Black P-Stones member acting on Hopsons orders shot and wounded A.J. FBIs Safe Streets Peninsula Task Force investigated the case, with the assistance of the Newport News Police Department and the James City County Police Department. Trial Attorney Marianne Shelvey of the Organized Crime and Gang Section in the Justice Departments Criminal Division and Assistant United States Attorney Eric M. Hurt of the Eastern District of Virginia are prosecuting the case.