Acting Assistant Attorney General Kenneth A. Blanco of the Justice Departments Criminal Division announced today that the United States has begun the remission compensation process to provide recovery for Western Union Company (Western Union) fraud victims from the $586 million civil forfeiture.  None None Knowing that its agents were involved in fraudulent schemes  and knowing that it had a legal obligation to detect and report this criminal conduct to the authorities  Western Union failed to act, leading to massive victim losses, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Blanco. Returning forfeited funds to these victims and other victims of crime is one of the Departments highest priorities. I want to commend our prosecutors, the FTC, and our law enforcement agent partners for their hard work that led to vindicating the rights of these victims. American consumers lost money while Western Union looked the other way, said Acting Chairman Maureen K. Ohlhausen of the FTC. Were pleased to start the process that will get that money back into consumers rightful hands. The U.S. Postal Inspection Service has been at the forefront of protecting consumers from fraud schemes for many years, said Inspector in Charge Daniel B. Brubaker of the United States Postal Inspection Services Philadelphia Division. While enforcing the laws that protect the innocent victims of these crimes, we are honored and take pleasure in returning the proceeds of international mass marketing fraud activity to their rightful owners, the victims, whenever possible. We would like to thank the victims who reported the fraudulent activity and worked with us during the investigation. We would also like to thank our law enforcement and regulatory investigative partners, particularly the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Middle District of Pennsylvania, the Department of Justices Money Laundering and Asset Recovery Section and the FTC for their contributions to this collaborative effort. None The U.S. Postal Inspection Service conducted the criminal fraud investigation. The FTC conducted the civil fraud investigation. Since fiscal year 2000, the Money Laundering and Asset Recovery Section, which will oversee the remission process, has successfully used its specialized expertise to return $5.1 billion in forfeited assets to victims of crime.