  Almighty Latin King and Queen Nation (ALKQN) member David Hellums, aka "CutThroat," pleaded guilty today to a superseding indictment charging him and 16 co-defendants with various offenses related to alleged narcotics and weapons trafficking, as well as violent activities throughout Texas.  Specifically, Hellums, 35, of Big Spring, Texas, pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to distribute and possess with intent to distribute five kilograms or more of cocaine and 100 kilograms or more of marijuana. He faces a maximum statutory sentence of not less than 10 years and up to life in prison. U.S. District Judge Sam R. Cummings ordered a pre-sentence investigation with a sentencing date to be scheduled after that investigation is completed.  According to documents filed in court, Hellums admitted that he was a member of a conspiracy that included Jose Robledo Nava, aka "Chino;" Luis Nava, aka "Flaco;" Reynaldo Nava, aka "Rat;" Robert Allen Ramirez, aka "Nesyo;" Marie Chavez, aka "Shorty;" Carol Ann Rivas Nava; Cecily Dominique Juarez; Jesus Martinez, aka "Solid;" James Johnathan Cole, aka "Blitz;" Eduardo Daniel Mares, aka "Pitt;" Gabriel Lee Gonzales; Michael Conde, aka "Psycho;" Guerrero Olivas, aka "Screech;" John Guzman; Hiluterio Chavez, aka "Zeus;" and Eliseo Perez, aka "Wicked" and others, and that from 2001 until December of 2008, directly or indirectly agreed to distribute, and possess with intent to distribute, cocaine and marijuana.  Hellums admitted that the overall scope of the conspiracy involved at least five kilograms of cocaine and 100 kilograms of marijuana. Hellums further admitted that he and his co-defendants intentionally and knowingly possessed with the intent to distribute cocaine and marijuana and distributed cocaine and marijuana to others. According to the indictment, they acquired the cocaine and marijuana from Mexico and brought it to the South Texas region, where it was packaged, stored, and transported to Big Spring, Lubbock and Midland, Texas, for further distribution.None  The indictment also alleged that from 2004 through mid July 2005, defendants Jose Robledo Nava, Jesus Martinez, and Hiluterio Chavez conspired to deal in firearms. Last month, Jesus Martinez and Hiluterio Chavez pleaded guilty to conspiring to engage in the business of dealing firearms.  Jose Robledo Nava is allegedly the ALKQN leader in Texas. He, along with James Johnathan Cole, Robert Allen Ramirez, Gabriel Lee Gonzales and Eduardo Daniel Mares are charged in the indictment with the May 4, 2008, murders of Valerie Garcia and Michael Cardona, in Big Spring.  The case is being investigated by the National Gang Targeting, Enforcement, and Coordinating Center (Gang TECC); the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force (OCDETF); the Midland and El Paso U.S. Attorneys Offices; the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration; the FBI; U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement; the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; the El Paso Intelligence Center; U.S. Customs and Border Protection; the U.S. Marshals Service; the Texas Department of Public Safety; the police departments of Lubbock, Midland, Houston, San Antonio and Big Spring, Texas; the Lubbock County Sheriffs Office; and the Howard County District Attorneys Office.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Cody L. Skipper of the Lubbock, Texas, U.S. Attorneys Office and Trial Attorney Joseph A. Cooley of the Department of Justices Criminal Divisions Gang Unit are prosecuting the case.NoneNone