  Ammie Brothers, 29, of Columbus, Ga., a sergeant in the U.S. Army, pleaded guilty today to unlawfully obtaining personal information from the U.S. Armys Army Knowledge Online computer system.  The guilty plea was announced by Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Departments Criminal Division; U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia Neil H. MacBride; U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of Georgia Michael J. Moore; and Director Daniel T. Andrews of the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Commands Computer Crime Investigative Unit.  Brothers pleaded guilty before U. S. District Judge Clay Land in Columbus, Ga., to one count of unauthorized access to information from a U.S. Army computer system. She was charged on Feb. 14, 2013, in a five-count indictment returned by a federal grand jury in Alexandria, Va.  In a statement of facts filed with the plea agreement, Brothers admitted that between April 24, 2009, and Oct. 5, 2011, she repeatedly and intentionally accessed two victims Army Knowledge Online accounts, which contain personnel files for members of the armed services. Brothers initially gained access by calling the Army Knowledge Online help desk in the Eastern District of Virginia and providing the victims Social Security numbers and dates of birth in order to obtain temporary passwords.  When law enforcement searched Brotherss home in Columbus, they recovered numerous documents printed from the Army Knowledge Online system that contained victims Social Security numbers, bank account numbers and employment history, including the Social Security number of one minor child. Brothers admitted to law enforcement that, in addition to illegally accessing the victims Army Knowledge Online accounts, she regularly harassed the victims by telephone and accessed several credit card accounts belonging to one victim, and in one case authorized charges without the victims knowledge or consent.  At sentencing, scheduled for Oct. 24, 2013, Brothers faces a maximum penalty of five years in prison.None