  WASHINGTON  A former State Department employee was sentenced today to 12 months of probation and ordered to perform 100 hours of community service for illegally accessing more than 150 confidential passport application files, Acting Assistant Attorney General Rita M. Glavin of the Criminal Division announced. Dwayne F. Cross, 41, of Upper Marlboro, Md., was sentenced by U.S.Magistrate Judge John M. Facciola in Washington, D.C. On Jan. 14, 2009, Cross pleaded guilty toa one-count criminal information charging him with unauthorized computer access.  According to court documents, from August 2001 through February 2008, Cross served as an administrative assistant in the Bureau of Consular Affairs, Overseas Citizens Services, Childrens Issues for the State Department. From March 2008 through October 2008, Cross returned to the State Department as a contract employee working as a contract specialist for the acquisitions office. According to information contained in plea documents, Cross admitted he had access to official State Department computer databases in the regular course of his employment, including the Passport Information Electronic Records System (PIERS), which contains, among other data, all imaged passport applications dating back to 1994. The imaged passport applications on PIERS contain, among other things, a photograph of the passport applicant as well as certain personal information including the applicants full name, date and place of birth, currentaddress, telephone numbers, parent information, spouses name and emergency contact information. These confidential files are protected by the Privacy Act of 1974, and access by State Department employees is strictly limited to official government duties.  In pleading guilty, Cross admitted that between January 2002 and August 2007, helogged onto the PIERS database and viewed the passport applications of more than 150celebrities, actors, musicians, comedians, models, politicians, athletes, members of the media, family members, friends, associates and other individuals. Cross admitted that he had noofficial government reason to access and view these passport applications, but that his sole purpose in accessing and viewing these passport applications was idle curiosity.  Cross is one of three former State Department employees to plead guilty in this continuing investigation. On Sept. 22, 2008, Lawrence C. Yontz, a former foreign service officer and intelligence analyst pleaded guilty to unlawfully accessing hundreds of confidential passport files. Yontz was sentenced on Dec. 19, 2008, to 12months of probation and ordered to perform 50 hours of community service. On Jan. 27, 2009, Gerald R. Leuders, a former foreign service officer, Office of Consular Affairs watch officer and recruitment coordinator pleaded guilty to unlawfully accessing more than 50 confidential passport files. Leuders sentencing has not yet been scheduled.  These cases are being prosecuted by Trial Attorney ArmandoO.Bonilla of the Criminal Divisions Public Integrity Section, headed by Section Chief William M. Welch II. These cases arebeing investigated by the State Department Office of Inspector General.