None  Thats why, in 2010, Congress passed the landmark Fair Sentencing Act, marking the culmination of persistent efforts  with the leadership of President Obama  to reduce unjust disparities in sentencing for similar offenses involving different types of drugs.  More recently, President Obama took another step by commuting the sentences of eight individuals who were sentenced under the outdated sentencing regime.  And at the Justice Department, weve announced additional reforms  under our Smart on Crime initiative  to ensure that individuals accused of certain low-level federal drug crimes no longer face excessive mandatory minimum sentences that are out of proportion with their alleged conduct  and serve no deterrent purpose.  These reforms have the potential to help make our criminal justice system not only fairer, but also  by reducing the burden on our overcrowded prison system  more efficient.  And now, we have the opportunity for leaders from both parties to come together to do even more.  Today, Im urging Congress to pass common-sense reforms like the bipartisan Smarter Sentencing Act, introduced by Senators Dick Durbin and Mike Lee  which would give judges more discretion in determining appropriate sentences for people convicted of certain federal drug crimes.  This bill would also provide a new mechanism for some individuals  who were sentenced under outdated laws and guidelines  to petition judges for sentencing reductions that are consistent with the Fair Sentencing Act.  Thanks to the leadership of Senators Durbin and Lee  along with Chairman Patrick Leahy and Senator Rand Paul  its clear that these and similar proposals enjoy bipartisan support on Capitol Hill.  These reforms would advance the goals of the Smart on Crime initiative  and other efforts that are currently underway  by fundamentally improving policies that exacerbate, rather than alleviate, key criminal justice challenges.  And such legislation could ultimately save our country billions of dollars in prison costs while keeping us safe.  I look forward to working with members of both parties to refine and advance these proposals in the days ahead.  And I pledge my own best efforts  and those of my colleagues throughout the Justice Department  to continue to strengthen Americas criminal justice system, and to build the more just society that everyone in this country deserves.None 