Maalik Alim Jones, 32, a U.S. citizen who resided in Maryland until 2011, pleaded guilty to conspiring to provide material support to al Shabaab, a designated foreign terrorist organization based in Somalia, conspiring to receive military training from al Shabaab, and carrying and using an AK-47 machine gun, rocket-propelled grenades and other weapons in furtherance of his support for al Shabaab. Acting Assistant Attorney General for National Security Dana J. Boente and Acting U.S. Attorney Joon H. Kim for the Southern District of New York made the announcement. U.S. District Judge Paul G. Gardephe presided over the hearing. Jones pleaded guilty to conspiring to provide material support to al Shabaab, by traveling abroad to join and fight on behalf of the foreign terrorist organization for four years, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Boente. I want to thank the many prosecutors, agents, and analysts who made this result possible.As he admitted in court today, Maalik Jones traveled to Somalia, was trained by al Shabaab in the use of an AK-47 and rocket-propelled grenades and took up arms for four years as a terrorist fighter, said Acting U.S. Attorney Kim For his allegiance to this lawless, terrorist organization that vows to destroy America and its values, Maalik Jones been held to account in an American court of law. All that is left is for him to be sentenced for his crimes.According to the Complaint, the Indictment, the Superseding Information, and statements made in court proceedings, including todays guilty plea:NoneIn particular, after joining Jaysh Ayman, Jones and his Jaysh Ayman unit participated in a battle in Afmadow, Somalia, against Kenyan government soldiers. Jones, armed with an AK-47 rifle, engaged in the fighting until he was injured by a missile and then hospitalized. After his release from the hospital, Jones returned to his service with al Shabaab and, in particular, Jaysh Ayman.NoneMr. Boente and Mr. Kim praised the investigative work of the FBIs New York Joint Terrorism Task Force  which principally consists of agents from the FBI and detectives from the New York City Police Department. He also thanked the U.S. Department of Justices National Security Division and Office of International Affairs, and the U.S. Department of State, for their assistance. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Andrew J. DeFilippis andShawn G. Crowley of the Southern District of New York, and Trial Attorney Raj Parekh of the National Security Divisions Counterterrorism Section are prosecuting this case.