Attorney General Eric Holder today welcomed the confirmation of Bill Baer as the Department of Justices Assistant Attorney General for the Antitrust Division. NoneSince January 2000, Baer was a partner and head of Arnold & Porter LLPs Antitrust Practice Group in Washington, D.C. Baers practice included providing counsel on a broad range of antitrust and consumer protection issues, including international cartel investigations and merger and acquisition reviews in the United States and the European Commission. He has extensive antitrust experience in various industries, including high tech, intellectual property, communications and health care. Baer also served as a partner at the firm from 1983 to 1995 and as an associate from 1980 to 1983. During that time, Baer specialized in complex civil and criminal antitrust litigation. From April 1995 to October 1999, Baer was the Federal Trade Commissions (FTC) Director of the Bureau of Competition. During that time, the FTC achieved significant enforcement successes, including blocking anticompetitive mergers involving two major office supply stores and of the four leading drug wholesalers. Under his leadership, the commission also successfully challenged exclusionary practices in a variety of industries, including toys, high tech and the leading brand name and generic drug manufacturers. From 1975 to 1980, Baer also served in other positions at the FTC, including Assistant General Counsel for Legislation & Congressional Relations, Assistant to Chairman Michael Pertschuk, and as a trial attorney and Assistant to the Director of the Bureau of Consumer Protection. Baer is a member of the American Bar Associations Antitrust Section. He has lectured in the United States and around the world on various antitrust and consumer protection issues.Baer received his J.D. from Stanford Law School in 1975, and served as editor of Stanfords Law Review. He received his B.A. from Lawrence University in 1972 where he graduated Cum Laude and Phi Beta Kappa.