A federal grand jury sitting in the Western District of New York returned an eight-count indictment against a former Erie County, New York Democratic party chair for bribing a New York State supreme court justice. NoneBribery of a judge strikes at the very core of our democracy, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Blanco. The independence of the judiciary is paramount to civilized society. Our prosecutors and law enforcement partners will pursue any and all attempts to corrupt our fundamental institutions, including the judiciary.The detailed facts set forth in the indictment provide evidence not only of the charges contained therein but of the tremendous investigation conducted by agents from the Buffalo Division of the FBI together with their partners at the New York State Attorney Generals Office and the New York State Police, said Acting U.S. Attorney Kennedy. The indictment speaks for itself.G. Steven Pigeon, 56, of Buffalo, New York, was charged with one count of conspiracy to commit bribery and honest services wire fraud, three counts of honest services wire fraud, one count of federal programs bribery and three counts of violation of the Travel Act.According to the indictment, between February 2012 and April 2013, Pigeon offered and provided things of value to former New York State Supreme Court Judge John A. Michalek, in exchange for official action. Specifically, Pigeon promised employment for a member of Michaleks immediate family with the 2012 campaign to reelect President Barack Obama; offered to help the same family member obtain employment with the U.S. Department of State; and agreed to support Michaleks application for appointment to the appellate division of the New York State Supreme Court, all to obtain favorable judicial decisions from Michalek and to control who Michalek would appoint to a paid court receivership. Pigeon was arraigned this morning before U.S. Magistrate Judge Michael J. Roemer and released on conditions pending trial of this matter before the Honorable Richard J. Arcara, U.S. District Judge.NoneThe fact that a defendant has been charged with a crime is merely an accusation and the defendant is presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty. 