  WASHINGTON  The owner and operator of a Louisiana-based durable medical equipment (DME) company was convicted today by a federal jury in Houston for his role in a $6.7 million Medicare fraud scheme, announced Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Justice Departments Criminal Division; U.S. Attorney Kenneth Magidson of the Southern District of Texas; and Special Agent in Charge Mike Fields of the Dallas Regional Office of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of the Inspector General (HHS-OIG).None  Msiakii used Joy Supplys Medicare provider number to submit claims to Medicare for DME, including orthotic devices, that was medically unnecessary and, in some cases, never provided. Many of the orthotic devices were components of arthritis kits and purported to be for the treatment of arthritis-related conditions; however, the devices were neither medically necessary nor appropriate for such conditions. The arthritis kit generally contained a number of orthotic devices including braces for both sides of the body and related accessories such as heat pads.  According to court documents, from November 2007 through September 2009, Msiakii submitted claims of approximately $6.7 million to Medicare and was paid approximately $3.6 million for devices that were not medically necessary and, in some cases, never provided.  At sentencing, scheduled for Feb. 28, 2013, Msiakii faces a maximum sentence of 80 years in prison.  This case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Laura M.K. Cordova and Ben ONeil of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section. The case was brought as part of the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, supervised by the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of Texas and the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section.  Since its inception in March 2007, the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, now operating in nine cities across the country, has charged more than 1,480 defendants who have collectively billed the Medicare program for more than $4.8 billion. In addition, HHSs Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, working in conjunction with HHS-OIG, is taking steps to increase accountability and decrease the presence of fraudulent providers.