  WASHINGTON - John D. Stacey, a resident of Phoenix, was convicted today of income tax evasion, corrupt interference with the due administration of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and multiple counts of fraudulent use of a social securitynumber, the Department of Justice and IRS announced. A federal jury convicted Stacey of all counts of the indictment following a three week trial before Judge Neil V. Wake in Phoenix.None  According to the evidence presented at trial, since at least February 2002, Stacey knew that he owed taxes, penalties and interest for tax years 1995, 1996 and 1997. Stacey has made no payments to the IRS towards this tax debt. In addition to not paying his outstanding tax debt, Stacey took numerous steps to frustrate the IRSs efforts to both investigate the case and collect tax that he owed. For example, Stacey made multiple false statements to IRS agents, operated his business to prevent creating business records, made a number of luxury purchases rather than paying his outstanding tax debt and provided paving customers and financial institutions with multiple false social security numbers to prevent the IRS from receiving accurate information about his income, assets and financial transactions.  Judge Wake scheduled sentencing for Sept. 28, 2009. Stacey faces a maximum sentence of five years in prison for the tax evasion charge; a maximum sentence of three years in prison for the corrupt endeavor charge; and a maximum sentence of five years in prison for each false social security charge. Additionally, Stacey faces a fine of $250,000, for each charged count.  Acting Assistant Attorney General John A. DiCicco of the Justice Departments Tax Division commended the IRS-Criminal Investigation special agents who investigated the case, as well as Tax Division trial attorneys Ellen Quattrucci, Monica Edelstein and Stephanie Carowan, who prosecuted the case. Acting Assistant Attorney General DiCicco also thanked the U.S. Attorneys Office in Phoenix for their assistance in successfully prosecuting this matter.