   WASHINGTON A federal jury in Baton Rouge, La., today convicted a former research scientist of stealingtrade secrets from Dow Chemical Company and selling them to companies in the Peoples Republic of China, as well as committing perjury, announced Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney Donald J. Cazayoux Jr. for the Middle District of Louisiana.    After a three-week trial, the jury found Wen Chyu Liu, aka David W. Liou, 74, of Houston, guilty of one count of conspiracy to commit trade secret theft and one count of perjury.   According to the evidence presented in court, Liou came to the United States from China for graduate work.   He began working for Dow in 1965 and retired in 1992. Dow is a leading producer of the elastomeric polymer, chlorinated polyethylene (CPE). Dows Tyrin CPE is used in a number of applications worldwide, such as automotive and industrial hoses, electrical cable jackets and vinyl siding.   While employed at Dow, Liou worked as a research scientist at the companys Plaquemine, La., facility on various aspects of the development and manufacture of Dow elastomers, including Tyrin CPE. Liou had access to trade secrets and confidential and proprietary information pertaining to Dows Tyrin CPE process and product technology.   The evidence at trial established that Liou conspired with at least four current and former employees of Dows facilities in Plaquemine and Stade, Germany, who had worked in Tyrin CPE production, to misappropriate those trade secrets in an effort to develop and market CPE process design packages to various Chinese companies.   Liou traveled extensively throughout China to market the stolen information, and evidence introduced at trial showed that he paid current and former Dow employees for Dows CPE-related material and information.   In one instance, Liou bribed a then-employee at the Plaquemine facility with $50,000 in cash to provide Dows process manual and other CPE-related information. None   This office will continue to pursue sophisticated and complex schemes, such as the one perpetrated by this defendant, said U.S. Attorney Cazayoux.   Such actions undermine the economic viability of our community and our nation, and will not be tolerated. None   In addition, according to evidence presented at trial related to the perjury charge, Liou falsely denied during a deposition that he made arrangements for a co-conspirator to travel to China to meet with representatives of a Chinese company interested in designing and building a new CPE plant. Liou was under oath at the time of the deposition, which was part of a federal civil suit brought by Dow against Liou.   Liou faces a maximum of 10 years in prison on the conspiracy to commit trade secrets theft charge, and a maximum of five years in prison on the perjury charge.   Each count also carries a maximum fine of $250,000.   A sentencing date has not yet been scheduled.    The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Corey R. Amundson, who serves as the Senior Deputy Criminal Chief, and Assistant U.S. Attorney Ian F. Hipwell for the Middle District of Louisiana, as well as Trial Attorney Kendra Ervin of the Criminal Divisions Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section. The case was investigated by the FBIs New Orleans Division.