NoneNone According to a one-count felony charge filed today in U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan in Detroit, Diamond Electric engaged in a conspiracy, by agreeing during meetings and conversations, to rig bids for, and to fix, stabilize and maintain the prices of ignition coils it sold to Ford Motor Co., Toyota Motor Corp., Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. and certain of their subsidiaries, in the United States and elsewhere, on a model-by-model basis. According to the charge, Diamond Electric and its co-conspirators carried out the conspiracy from at least as early as July 2003 until at least February 2010. Todays prosecutions brings the total to 10 companies and 15 executives held accountable for fixing prices on parts used to manufacture cars in the United States, said Scott D. Hammond, Deputy Assistant Attorney General of the Antitrust Divisions criminal enforcement program. The Antitrust Division and its law enforcement partners will protect American businesses and consumers from harmful price-fixing cartels and bring those responsible to justice. Diamond Electric manufactures and sells ignition coils. Ignition coils are part of the fuel ignition system. They are responsible for quickly releasing electricity to the spark plugs for ignition. According to a one-count felony charge filed today in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan in Detroit, Matsunaga, a Japanese national, engaged in a conspiracy to rig bids for, and to fix, stabilize and maintain the prices of certain seatbelts sold to Toyota in the United States and elsewhere. According to the charge, Matsunagas involvement in the conspiracy lasted from on or about May 2008 until at least February 2011.NoneNoneNone Including Diamond Electric and Matsunaga, 10 companies and 15 executives have pleaded guilty or agreed to plead guilty in the divisions ongoing investigation into price fixing and bid rigging in the auto parts industry and have agreed to pay a total of $828 million in criminal fines. DENSO, Nippon Seiki Ltd., Tokai Rika Co. Ltd., Furukawa Electric Co. Ltd, Yazaki Corp., G.S. Electech Inc., Fujikura Ltd., Autoliv Inc. and TRW Deutschland Holding GmbH have already pleaded guilty. Additionally, 12 individuals have been sentenced to pay criminal fines and to serve jail sentences ranging from a year and a day to two years each. Two additional executives have agreed to serve time in prison and are currently awaiting sentencing.None None