The U.S. District Court for the Central District of California entered a consent decree of permanent injunction against L.A. Star Seafood Company Inc. of Los Angeles and its corporate officers Sima Goldring and Sam Goldring to prevent the distribution of adulterated seafood products, the Department of Justice announced today.The department filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California on Jan. 5, at the request of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), alleging that the companys seafood products are produced under conditions that are inadequate to ensure the safety of its products. The complaint alleges that L.A. Star Seafood imports, receives, prepares, processes, packs, holds and distributes ready-to-eat smoked and salt-cured seafood, including cold-smoked mackerel and steelhead trout, and pickled herring and sprats. The complaint also alleges that Sima Goldring and Sam Goldring are L.A. Star Seafoods corporate officers with the authority and responsibility for preventing and correcting violations of federal law at the company.In conjunction with the filing of the complaint, the defendants agreed to settle the litigation and be bound by a consent decree of permanent injunction that prohibits them from committing violations of the federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA). The consent decree requires L.A. Star Seafood to cease all manufacturing operations and requires that, in order for the defendants to resume distributing seafood products, the FDA first must determine that its manufacturing practices have come into compliance with the law.L.A. Star Seafood was repeatedly informed that the sanitation practices at its facility were deficient, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer of the Justice Departments Civil Division. The failure to actively plan for and control the presence of bacteria and neurotoxins commonly found in seafood processing facilities can pose a serious risk to the public health.NoneCompanies and their owners who violate food safety regulations endanger public health, said Associate Commissioner of Regulatory Affairs Melinda K. Plaisier of the FDA. The FDA will continue to take every necessary action to assure the food supply is safe.NoneThe government is represented by Trial Attorney Kerala T. Cowart of the Civil Divisions Consumer Protection Branch, with the assistance of Donald Yoo of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Central District of California and Associate Chief Counsel for Enforcement Melissa J. Mendoza of the Department of Health and Human Services Office of General Counsels Food and Drug Division.