  WASHINGTON  The United States has filed a complaint against Healthpoint Ltd., alleging civil False Claims Act violations arising from the companys sale of an unapproved prescription drug that was ineligible for payment under Medicaid and Medicare, the Justice Department announced today.   In the complaint, filed in the District of Massachusetts, the government alleges that the Ft. Worth, Texas-based subsidiary of DFB Pharmaceuticals Inc., submitted false statements concerning the regulatory status of Xenaderm to the United States, thereby causing false or fraudulent prescription claims for the unapproved drug to be submitted to Medicaid and Medicare.    None   The governments complaint alleges that Healthpoint knew Xenaderm was unapproved, and knew of or recklessly disregarded the FDA notices concerning trypsins lack of effectiveness as a debriding agent. According to the complaint, Healthpoint nonetheless falsely represented to the United States that the drug was eligible for Medicaid and Medicare reimbursement. As a result of Healthpoints false statements, the United States alleges that Healthpoint caused Medicaid and Medicare to pay tens of millions of dollars for an unapproved drug that was ineligible for reimbursement.   The complaint filed today underscores our commitment to pursuing manufacturers that provide false information to obtain taxpayer dollars for unapproved and ineffective drugs, said Tony West, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Division of the Department of Justice.       This action reflects our continued efforts to ensure that drug manufacturers do not evade the drug approval process or cause the government to pay for less than effective drugs, said Carmen Ortiz, U.S. Attorney for the District of Massachusetts. None   The problem with unapproved drugs is that FDA does not know what is in them, whether they are effective or safe, or how they are made. said FDA Commissioner Margaret M. Hamburg, MD. "FDA routinely works together with companies to ensure that safe, effective products are available for Americans.As this case demonstrates, when companies place consumers at risk by selling drugs without required FDA approval, they should not profit from that."    This investigation was conducted by the Justice Departments Civil Division, the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services and the FDA.