  WASHINGTON - FBI agents today arrested four people in connection with an armed home invasion robbery in Bartonsville, Penn., announced Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Zane David Memeger for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania and Special Agent in Charge       George C. Venizelos of the FBIs Philadelphia Field Office.  A federal grand jury in Philadelphia returned the seven-count indictment unsealed today, which charges Buu Huu Truong, aka "Thanh," 35, of Upper Darby, Penn.; Den Van Nguyen, aka "Son," 40, of Philadelphia; Tahn Le, 43, of Philadelphia; and Thach Van Truong aka "Michael," 33, of Wall Township, N.J. The defendants are charged variously with conspiracy to commit robbery that interferes with interstate commerce, robbery that interferes with interstate commerce, brandishing a firearm during a crime of violence and possession of a firearm by a convicted felon. The defendants were arrested without incident this morning and will make initial appearances in U.S. District Court in Philadelphia today.  According to the indictment, in January 2010, Truong, Den Van Nguyen, Thach Van Nguyen, Le and Teo Van Bui met in Philadelphia and discussed the fact that they believed that a nail salon owner kept a large amount of proceeds from his businesses in his residence. On Jan. 26, 2010, these defendants entered the owners residence shortly after he and his family arrived home. The defendants brandished weapons, threatened the victims and tied the nail salon owner up with duct tape. The indictment alleges the defendants stole, or attempted to steal, cash, jewelry and other valuables from the home.  Bui was previously indicted on Nov. 3, 2010, for the same offenses. The conspiracy to commit robbery and robbery charges each carry a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. The firearms charges each carry a maximum penalty of life in prison and a $250,000 fine.  An indictment is merely an accusation, and defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty in a court of law.  The case was investigated by the FBI; the Pocono, Penn., Township Police; the Philadelphia Police Department and the Pennsylvania State Police. The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Robert J. Livermore of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Racketeering Section.