  WASHINGTON  The Justice Department announced a settlement today with Lorain County, Ohio, to protect the rights of Spanish-speaking Puerto Rican voters under Section 4(e) of the Voting Rights Act. Todays agreement is intended to resolve concerns that limited-English proficient Puerto Rican voters were being denied their full voting rights because the county failed to provide language assistance as required by law.   The county has agreed that, starting with the Nov. 8, 2011, election, it will provide county-wide bilingual ballots on the voting machines at the polls, as well as bilingual poll workers in targeted precincts. The agreement includes additional steps that the county will take to achieve full compliance with Section 4(e) by the first election held in 2012. None   The right to vote is the cornerstone of our democracy, said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division. Todays agreement will ensure that Spanish-speaking voters have equal access to the ballot box and receive critical language assistance as the law requires so their votes will count. I greatly appreciate the cooperation of county officials in working closely with us to reach this resolution.   The citizens of Lorain County should be proud of their Board of Elections. Quietly, competently and collaboratively, theyve protected the interests of Lorain County citizens, said Steve Dettelbach, U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Ohio. Protecting the rights of all our citizens is at the core of our democracy and the core of the United States Attorneys Offices mission.   Section 4(e) of the Voting Rights Act requires that jurisdictions with significant Puerto Rican populations cannot deny an individuals voting rights based on their ability to read, write, understand or interpret any election matter in English. The 2000 Census found more than 13,000 Puerto Ricans resided in Lorain County , and that 32.5 percent of the countys voting-age Puerto Ricans were limited-English proficient. Recently-issued 2010 Census data found that there are now more than 17,000 Puerto Ricans in Lorain County, and that the countys Puerto Rican population has increased by nearly 60 percent since 1990. None