Global health care giant GlaxoSmithKline LLC (GSK) agreed to plead guilty and to pay $3 billion to resolve its criminal and civil liability arising from the companys unlawful promotion of certain prescription drugs, its failure to report certain safety data, and its civil liability for alleged false price reporting practices, the Justice Department announced today. The resolution is the largest health care fraud settlement in U.S. history and the largest payment ever by a drug company. GSK agreed to plead guilty to a three-count criminal information, including two counts of introducing misbranded drugs, Paxil and Wellbutrin, into interstate commerce and one count of failing to report safety data about the drug Avandia to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Under the terms of the plea agreement, GSK will pay a total of $1 billion, including a criminal fine of $956,814,400 and forfeiture in the amount of $43,185,600. The criminal plea agreement also includes certain non-monetary compliance commitments and certifications by GSKs U.S. president and board of directors. GSKs guilty plea and sentence is not final until accepted by the U.S. District Court. GSK will also pay $2 billion to resolve its civil liabilities with the federal government under the False Claims Act, as well as the states. The civil settlement resolves claims relating to Paxil, Wellbutrin and Avandia, as well as additional drugs, and also resolves pricing fraud allegations. Todays multi-billion dollar settlement is unprecedented in both size and scope. It underscores the Administrations firm commitment to protecting the American people and holding accountable those who commit health care fraud, said James M. Cole, Deputy Attorney General. At every level, we are determined to stop practices that jeopardize patients health, harm taxpayers, and violate the public trust  and this historic action is a clear warning to any company that chooses to break the law. Todays historic settlement is a major milestone in our efforts to stamp out health care fraud, said Bill Corr, Deputy Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS).For a long time, our health care system had been a target for cheaters who thought they could make an easy profit at the expense of public safety, taxpayers, and the millions of Americans who depend on programs like Medicare and Medicaid. But thanks to strong enforcement actions like those we have announced today, that equation is rapidly changing. This resolution marks the culmination of an extensive investigation by special agents from HHS-OIG, FDA and FBI, along with law enforcement partners across the federal government.Moving forward, GSK will be subject to stringent requirements under its corporate integrity agreement with HHS-OIG; this agreement is designed to increase accountability and transparency and prevent future fraud and abuse.Effective law enforcement partnerships and fraud prevention are hallmarks of the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT) initiative, which fosters government collaboration to fight fraud.NoneCriminal Plea AgreementNoneUnder the provisions of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, a company in its application to the FDA must specify each intended use of a drug. After the FDA approves the product as safe and effective for a specified use, a companys promotional activities must be limited to the intended uses that FDA approved. In fact, promotion by the manufacturer for other uses  known as off-label uses  renders the product misbranded. None NoneNoneNone This case demonstrates our continuing commitment to ensuring that the messages provided by drug manufacturers to physicians and patients are true and accurate and that decisions as to what drugs are prescribed to sick patients are based on best medical judgments, not false and misleading claims or improper financial inducements, said Carmen Ortiz, U.S. Attorney for the District of Massachusetts. Patients rely on their physicians to prescribe the drugs they need, said John Walsh, U.S. Attorney for Colorado.The pharmaceutical industries drive for profits can distort the information provided to physicians concerning drugs. This case will help to ensure that your physician will make prescribing decisions based on good science and not on misinformation, money or favors provided by the pharmaceutical industry. Civil Settlement Agreement As part of this global resolution, GSK has agreed to resolve its civil liability for the following alleged conduct: (1) promoting the drugs Paxil, Wellbutrin, Advair, Lamictal and Zofran for off-label, non-covered uses and paying kickbacks to physicians to prescribe those drugs as well as the drugs Imitrex, Lotronex, Flovent and Valtrex; (2) making false and misleading statements concerning the safety of Avandia; and (3) reporting false best prices and underpaying rebates owed under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. None GSK has agreed to pay $1.043 billion relating to false claims arising from this alleged conduct. The federal share of this settlement is $832 million and the state share is $210 million. None NoneNoneNone Except to the extent that GSK has agreed to plead guilty to the three-count criminal information, the claims settled by these agreements are allegations only, and there has been no determination of liability. This landmark settlement demonstrates the Departments commitment to protecting the American public against illegal conduct and fraud by pharmaceutical companies, said Stuart F. Delery, Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Civil Division. Doctors need truthful, fair, balanced information when deciding whether the benefits of a drug outweigh its safety risks. By the same token, the FDA needs all necessary safety-related information to identify safety trends and to determine whether a drug is safe and effective. Unlawful promotion of drugs for unapproved uses and failing to report adverse drug experiences to the FDA can tip the balance of those important decisions, and the Justice Department will not tolerate attempts by those who seek to corrupt our health care system in this way. Non-monetary Provisions and Corporate Integrity AgreementNoneNone Our five-year integrity agreement with GlaxoSmithKline requires individual accountability of its board and executives,said Daniel R. Levinson, Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.For example, company executives may have to forfeit annual bonuses if they or their subordinates engage in significant misconduct, and sales agents are now being paid based on quality of service rather than sales targets.   The FDA Office of Criminal Investigations will aggressively pursue pharmaceutical companies that choose to put profits before the publics health, said Deborah M. Autor, Esq., Deputy Commissioner for Global Regulatory Operations and Policy, U.S. Food and Drug Administration. We will continue to work with the Justice Department and our law enforcement counterparts to target companies that disregard the protections of the drug approval process by promoting drugs for uses when they have not been proven to be safe and effective for those uses, and that fail to report required drug safety information to the FDA. The record settlement obtained by the multi-agency investigative team shows not only the importance of working with our partners, but also the importance of the public providing their knowledge of suspect schemes to the government, said Kevin Perkins, Acting Executive Assistant Director of the FBIs Criminal, Cyber, Response and Services Branch. Together, we will continue to bring to justice those engaged in illegal schemes that threaten the safety of prescription drugs and other critical elements of our nations healthcare system.  Federal employees deserve health care providers and suppliers, including drug manufacturers, that meet the highest standards of ethical and professional behavior, said Patrick E. McFarland, Inspector General of the U.S. Office of Personnel Management. Todays settlement reminds the pharmaceutical industry that they must observe those standards and reflects the commitment of Federal law enforcement organizations to pursue improper and illegal conduct that places health care consumers at risk. Todays announcement illustrates the efforts of VA OIG and its law enforcement partners in ensuring the integrity of the medical care provided our nations veterans by the Department of Veterans Affairs, said George J. Opfer, Inspector General of the Department of Veterans Affairs.The monetary recoveries realized by VA in this settlement will directly benefit VA healthcare programs that provide for veterans continued care. This settlement sends a clear message that taking advantage of federal health care programs has substantial consequences for those who try, said Rafael A. Medina, Special Agent in Charge of the Northeast Area Office of Inspector General for the U.S. Postal Service. The U.S. Postal Service pays more than one billion dollars a year in workers' compensation benefits and our office is committed to pursuing those individuals or entities whose fraudulent acts continue to unfairly add to that cost. A Multilateral Effort The criminal case is being prosecuted by the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Massachusetts and the Civil Divisions Consumer Protection Branch. The civil settlement was reached by the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Massachusetts, the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Colorado and the Civil Divisions Commercial Litigation Branch. Assistance was provided by the HHS Office of Counsel to the Inspector General, Office of the General Counsel-CMS Division and FDAs Office of Chief Counsel as well as the National Association of Medicaid Fraud Control Units. This matter was investigated by agents from the HHS-OIG; the FDAs Office of Criminal Investigations; the Defense Criminal Investigative Service of the Department of Defense; the Office of the Inspector General for the Office of Personnel Management; the Department of Veterans Affairs; the Department of Labor; TRICARE Program Integrity; the Office of Inspector General for the U.S. Postal Service and the FBI. This resolution is part of the governments emphasis on combating health care fraud and another step for the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT) initiative, which was announced in May 2009 by Attorney General Eric Holder and Kathleen Sebelius, Secretary of HHS. The partnership between the two departments has focused efforts to reduce and prevent Medicare and Medicaid financial fraud through enhanced cooperation. Over the last three years, the department has recovered a total of more than $10.2 billion in settlements, judgments, fines, restitution, and forfeiture in health care fraud matters pursued under the False Claims Act and the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. NoneNone