The Justice Department announced today that the owners and operators of Twin Oaks Mobile Home Park in Whitewater, Wisconsin, have agreed to pay $100,000 to settle a Justice Department lawsuit alleging that they unlawfully excluded families with children from significant portions of their 230-lot mobile home park. The settlement must still be approved by the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Wisconsin.Families with children should be free to choose housing that meets their needs and their budget, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta, head of the Civil Rights Division. They should not face discrimination when they are looking for a home for their families. The U.S. Department of Justice is committed to fighting illegal discrimination and ensuring the fair housing rights of families wherever they are challenged, said U.S. Attorney John W. Vaudreuil of the Western District of Wisconsin.The lawsuit, filed in October 2014, arose as a result of a complaint filed with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) by a single mother and a former resident who had tried to complete the sale of a mobile home in the park. The defendants refused to approve the application for residency of the single mother who planned to purchase the mobile home and live there with her then-two-year-old child because the home was located in an area of the park where they did not allow children. After conducting an investigation, HUD found that the defendants had violated the Fair Housing Act and referred the matter to the Department of Justice. The defendants in the case include Twin Oaks Mobile Home Park Inc.; Merrill Eugene Gutzmer, the owner of the park; and Dennis Hansen, the resident manager. After the lawsuit was filed, the defendants approved the residency of the single mother who had filed the HUD complaint and she was able to purchase the mobile home. Unless a mobile home park meets the very specific requirements to be designated housing for older persons, the owner cannot refuse to sell or rent a home to a family because they have a child, said Gustavo Velasquez, HUDs Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity. Todays settlement reaffirms HUDs determination to work with the Justice Department to ensure that occupancy standards established by housing providers do not violate the Fair Housing Act.NoneNoneNoneNone