  WASHINGTON - Six alleged members or associates of the Aryan Brotherhood of Texas (ABT) have been indicted and arrested for their alleged roles in the 2007 murder of two people in Nacogdoches County, Texas, announced Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney John M. Bales of the Eastern District of Texas.  The indictment, returned by the federal grand jury on Jan. 21, 2010, and unsealed today, charges the six defendants with violent crimes in aid of racketeering activity. These activities include conspiracy to commit murder and murder. Additional charges of carrying a firearm during and in relation to a crime of violence and accessory after the fact in the murders were also filed against several individuals.  According to the indictment, the ABT is a powerful race-based state-wide organization that operates inside and outside of state and federal prisons throughout Texas and the United States. The ABT was established in the early 1980s within the Texas prison system. It modeled itself after and adopted many of the precepts and writings of the Aryan Brotherhood, a California-based prison gang that was formed in the California prison system during the 1960s. According to the indictment, previously the ABT was primarily concerned with the protection of white inmates and white supremacy/separatism. Over time, the ABT has expanded its focus more towards a criminal enterprise to include illegal activities for profit.  The ABT enforces its rules and promotes discipline among its members, prospects and associates through murder, attempted murder, conspiracy to murder, assault, robbery and threats against those who violate the rules or pose a threat to the enterprise. Members, and oftentimes associates, are required to follow the orders of higher-ranking members, often referred to as a direct orders.  The indictment alleges that a member of the Aryan Brotherhood, David Clyde Mitchamore Jr., aka Super Dave, and his girlfriend, Christie Rochelle Brown, were murdered by Charles Cameron Frazier, aka Mojo, and Brent Nicholas Stalsby, aka Twist, because Mitchamore failed to repay an outstanding debt he allegedly owed to Carl Richard Carver, an alleged general in the Aryan Brotherhood. The indictment alleges that after Mitchamore was killed, Frazier and Stalsby murdered Brown because they did not want to leave any witnesses to Mitchamores killing. The bodies of Mitchamore and Brown were discovered in Nacogdoches County on Aug. 10, 2007.  The following individuals were taken into custody today without incident.  Carver, Frazier and Brent Stalsby appeared today before U.S. Magistrate Judge Keith Giblin. Wood, Flanagan and Terry Stalsby will make their initial appearances tomorrow before Judge Giblin. The punishment range for these offenses includes life in prison or the death penalty.  The case is being prosecuted by the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of Texas  Lufkin Office and the Criminal Divisions Gang Unit, in full cooperation with the Nacogdoches County District Attorneys Office. This case is being investigated by the FBI; the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration; the National Gang Targeting, Enforcement & Coordination Center (Gang-TECC); the National Gang Intelligence Center; the Nacogdoches Sheriff's Department; the Nacogdoches Police Department; the Angelina County, Texas, Sheriff's Department; the Lufkin Police Department; the Texas Department of Public Safety; and the Texas Rangers.  An indictment is not evidence of guilt. All defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.