A New Hampshire man was sentenced today to 96 months in prison for remotely hacking into the online accounts of dozens of teenaged female victims and sending them threatening online communications, in some instances containing sexually explicit photos, in order to force the victims to send him sexually explicit photos of themselves.Acting Assistant Attorney General Kenneth A. Blanco of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Emily Rice of the District of New Hampshire and Resident Agent in Charge Tim Benitez of the U.S. Secret Services Manchester, New Hampshire, Field Office made the announcement.Ryan J. Vallee, 23, formerly of Laconia, New Hampshire, was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge Paul J. Barbadoro of the District of New Hampshire.Vallee pleaded guilty on Aug. 25, 2016, to a 31-count superseding indictment charging him with 13 counts of making interstate threats, one count of computer hacking to steal information, eight counts of computer hacking to extort, eight counts of aggravated identity theft and one count of cyberstalking.On March 16, 2016, while Vallee was awaiting trial, he was re-arrested on new criminal charges and has remained in custody since then.The names of the victims are being withheld from the public to protect their privacy.According to admissions made in connection with his plea and evidence presented at sentencing, from 2011 through March 2016, Vallee, using various aliases that included Seth Williams and James McRow, engaged in a computer hacking and sextortion campaign designed to force dozens of teenaged victims  many of which he personally knew  to provide him with sexually explicit photographs of themselves and others.NoneThe U.S. Secret Service investigated the case with substantial assistance from the Belmont Police Department.Senior Trial Attorney Mona Sedky of the Criminal Divisions Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Arnold H. Huftalen of the District of New Hampshire prosecuted the case.