  The Justice Department and  the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) announced that a Durham, North Carolina,  woman was sentenced today to serve 30 months in federal prison for conspiring to  defraud the IRS.   Tasha Renee Smith was  sentenced in Greensboro, North Carolina, by U.S. District Judge Catherine  Eagles, who ordered her to serve three years of supervised release and to pay  restitution to the IRS in the amount of $375,578.  Smith pleaded guilty on April  8 to the conspiracy charge.   According to court  documents, Smith was employed by Nothing But Taxes (NBT), a tax return  preparation business with branches throughout North Carolina, for parts of the  filing seasons for tax years 2005, 2006 and 2007.  While working at NBTs Durham  location, Smith intentionally falsified tax returns for many clients.  Common  techniques she employed include the addition of false dependents to tax returns  and inflating the Earned Income Tax Credit for low-income clients by adding  additional, fictitious income.   According to court  documents, during her second and third seasons preparing returns at NBT, Smith  made extensive efforts to solicit and purchase the names, dates of birth and  social security numbers of individuals in the community.  Smith used the  identities she purchased as false dependents on returns she prepared at NBT  later that tax year.  Smith charged clients a side cash payment in exchange for  a false dependent, in addition to the flat return preparation fee charged by  NBT.   According to court  documents, during the 2008 tax filing season, Smith and two business partners  opened their own tax return preparation business, Tax Wizards, with branches in  Durham and Roxboro, North Carolina.  Smith owned and operated the business, and  hired her own return preparers.  Like NBT, Tax Wizards became a center of tax  fraud.  Smith encouraged return preparers she hired at Tax Wizards to keep any  falsifications on tax returns they prepared modest, in the $1,200 to $1,500  range, to avoid IRS scrutiny.  Smith knew that return preparers she employed at  Tax Wizards were falsifying returns for clients because she had cautioned the  return preparers to keep any falsifications modest and because she witnessed  some falsifications occur on the premises.  Smith intentionally tried to avoid  being physically present at Tax Wizards, in part to avoid the hassle of  day-to-day management, but also because she did not want to be present while she  knew fraud was occurring.   Court documents state that  Smith and another person opened a tax return preparation business during the  2009 tax filing season called Keystone Tax Services, also in Durham.  Keystone  also became a hotbed of tax fraud.  Smith also intentionally tried to avoid  being physically present at Keystone for the same reasons as with Tax Wizards.   Around April 2011, Smith closed down Tax Wizards and Keystone.  Smith became  aware that return preparers at her businesses were falsifying returns by  creating fictitious Form W-2s ostensibly issued by non-existent businesses.   The falsification was so rampant and involved so much money that Smith feared  IRS detection, so she shuttered Tax Wizards and Keystone.   According to court  documents, during filing season for tax year 2011, in January to April 2012,  Smith and other investors opened a business called Tax Solutions.  Tax Solutions  had four branches throughout North Carolina, specifically, in Roxboro, Durham,  Burlington and Kinston.  Smith was hired in exchange for a share of the  businesss profits and was charged with hiring managers for the various Tax  Solutions branches.  She hired at least one manager whom she knew to be  complicit in the fraudulent practices at Tax Wizards and Keystone.  Return  preparers at Tax Solutions also falsified numerous tax returns for their  clients.   The case against Smith was  investigated by Special Agents of IRS-Criminal Investigation.  It was prosecuted  by Assistant U.S. Attorney Frank Chut for the Middle District of North Carolina  and Trial Attorney Jonathan Marx of the Justice Departments Tax  Division.