Today, as part of a continued effort to return the rule of law to Americas immigration system in order to serve national interest, Attorney General Jeff Sessions released a memo to the Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR) renewing the Justice Departments commitment to timely and efficient adjudication of immigration cases. The memo expresses the Attorney Generals appreciation for the progress made since the beginning of the Trump Administration, encourages EOIR personnel to identify new efficiencies in their operations, and articulates five core principles that EOIR personnel should support and adhere to when adjudicating immigration cases. The Justice Departments commitment to the timely and efficient adjudication of immigration cases is the foundation of EOIRs Caseload Reduction Plana series of common-sense reforms that aim to reduce the so-called backlog by realigning the agency towards completing cases, increasing both productivity and capacity, and changing policies that lead to inefficiencies and delay justice. EOIR is also committed to hiring additional immigration judgeswith 50 brought on board since January 20, and another 60 additional who will be hired in the next six monthswhich, when combined with new efficiencies in the system, will ensure that EOIRs mission of fairly, expeditiously, and uniformly administering the immigration laws is fulfilled.  EOIR released data on orders of removal, voluntary departures, and final decisions for the first 10 months of the Trump Administration. The data released for Feb. 1, 2017  Nov. 30, 2017 is as follows:    The Department of Justice will continue to review internal practices, procedures, and technology in order to identify ways in which it can further enhance Immigration Judges productivity without compromising due process.  The state of our nations immigration court system has major implications on national security, public safety, and labor markets. With todays memo, the Attorney General reaffirms his commitment to the rule of law and to the timely and proper adjudication of immigration court cases, said Executive Office for Immigration Review Acting Director James McHenry. EOIR has already begun to see the effects of this commitment, andwith the same dedication from EOIR staff, attorneys, and judgescan further work toward realizing our goal of cutting the pending caseload in half by 2020. NoneNoneNone 