  WASHINGTON  Jean Rene Duperval, a former director of international relations for Telecommunications DHaiti S.A.M. (Haiti Teleco), a Haitian state-owned telecommunications company, has been convicted by a federal jury on all counts for his role in a scheme to launder bribes paid to him by two Miami-based telecommunications companies. The jury reached its verdict late yesterday after less than three hours of deliberations, following a week-long trial.  The conviction was announced by Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Justice Departments Criminal Division; U.S. Attorney Wifredo A. Ferrer for the Southern District of Florida; and Special Agent in Charge Jose A. Gonzalez of Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI), Miami Field Office.  Mr. Duperval was convicted by a Miami jury of laundering $500,000 paid to him as part of an elaborate bribery scheme, said Assistant Attorney General Breuer. As the director of international relations for Haitis state-owned telecommunications company, Duperval doled out business in exchange for bribes and then used South Florida shell companies to conceal his crimes. This Justice Department is committed to stamping out corruption wherever we find it.  To conceal the payment and receipt of bribes, Duperval participated in a money laundering scheme to funnel about half a million dollars to two shell companies under his control, said U.S. Attorney Ferrer. This verdict confirms that American taxpayers will not tolerate bribery, either at home or abroad, to obtain unfair business advantages.  Todays announcement sends a strong message to those hiding monies in bogus business entities: no matter how elaborate or complex the scheme, you will get caught, said IRS Special Agent in Charge Gonzalez. IRS criminal investigators will continue to aggressively investigate bribery schemes to ensure that honest businesses have the benefit of a competitive market.  Duperval, 45, of Miramar, Fla., was convicted of two counts of conspiracy to commit money laundering and 19 counts of money laundering. According to the charges, the funds that were laundered were the proceeds of violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), Haitian bribery law and the wire fraud statute.  Duperval was the director of international relations for Haiti Teleco, the sole provider of land line telephone service in Haiti. According to the evidence presented at trial, two Miami-based telecommunications companies had a series of contracts with Haiti Teleco that allowed the companies customers to place telephone calls to Haiti.None  Duperval was remanded to the custody of the U.S. Marshals. Sentencing is scheduled for May 21, 2012. The conspiracy to commit money laundering count carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and a fine of the greater of $500,000 or twice the value of the property involved in the transaction. The money laundering counts each carry a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and a fine of the greater of $500,000 or twice the value of the property involved in the transaction. The indictment also seeks forfeiture, which will be determined by the court at a later date.  Duperval was the eighth defendant involved in the corruption scheme to be convicted, which includes the following individuals:  In a second superseding indictment, Washington Vasconez Cruz, Amadeus Richers and Cecilia Zurita were charged in a related scheme to commit foreign bribery and money laundering from December 2001 through January 2006. The defendants are fugitives. An indictment is merely an accusation, and defendants are presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.  The Department of Justice is grateful to the government of Haiti for continuing to provide substantial assistance in gathering evidence during this investigation. In particular, Haitis financial intelligence unit, the Unit Centrale de Renseignements Financiers (UCREF), the Bureau des Affaires Financires et Economiques (BAFE), which is a specialized component of the Haitian National Police, and the Ministry of Justice and Public Security provided significant cooperation and coordination in this ongoing investigation.None  The case is being prosecuted by Senior Trial Attorney James M. Koukios and Trial Attorney Daniel S. Kahn of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section. The Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs also provided assistance in this matter. These cases were investigated by the IRS-CI Miami Field Office.