  WASHINGTON - The Justice Department today released a final rule to prevent, detect and respond to sexual abuse in confinement facilities, in accordance with the Prison Rape Elimination Act of 2003 (PREA). This landmark rule sets national standards for four categories of facilities: adult prisons and jails, lockups, community confinement facilities and juvenile facilities. Todays rule is the first-ever federal effort to set standards aimed at protecting inmates in all such facilities at the federal, state and local levels.  The standards we establish today reflect the fact that sexual assault crimes committed within our correctional facilities can have devastating consequences  for individual victims and for communities far beyond our jails and prisons, said Attorney General Eric Holder. These standards are the result of a thoughtful and deliberative process  and represent a critical step forward in protecting the rights and safety of all Americans.  The standards have three clear goals: to prevent, detect and respond to sexual abuse.  Prevent: To prevent sexual abuse, the standards require, among other things, that facilities:  Detect: To detect sexual abuse, the standards require, among other things, that facilities:  Respond: To respond to sexual abuse, the standards require, among other things, that facilities:  In addition, the standards require that each facility be audited every three years to assess compliance.  The standards set forth in the final rule are binding on the Federal Bureau of Prisons. With regard to states, those that do not comply with the standards are subject to a five percent reduction in funds they would otherwise receive for prison purposes from the department unless the governor certifies that five percent of such funds will be used to enable compliance in future years. No organization responsible for the accreditation of correctional facilities may receive any federal grants unless it adopts accreditation standards consistent with the standards set forth in the final rule.  The administration has also determined that PREA applies to all federal confinement facilities, including those operated by executive departments and agencies other than the Department of Justice. According to a presidential memorandum issued today, other federal departments with confinement facilities will work with the attorney general to issue rules or procedures that will satisfy the requirements of PREA, in recognition of the fact that each federal agency is accountable for the operations of its own facilities and, therefore, is best positioned to determine how to implement federal laws and rules that govern its operations and the safety of persons in its custody. Those agencies will work with the attorney general to propose, within 120 days of the date of the Presidential Memorandum, any rules or procedures necessary to satisfy the requirements of PREA, and to finalize any such rules or procedures within 240 days of their proposal.  Congress unanimously passed the Prison Rape Elimination Act in 2003 and created the National Prison Rape Elimination Commission to recommend a set of standards to the attorney general, after which it disbanded pursuant to the act. After receiving the commissions recommendations in 2009, the attorney general convened an intradepartmental PREA working group that was tasked with reviewing the commissions recommendations and collecting public feedback on the commissions proposal. Last year the department published a draft rule for public comment.  The final rule reflects careful consideration of all public input, including over 1300 public comments on the proposed rule, as well as detailed analysis of anticipated benefits and costs, in light of PREAs requirement that the standards not impose substantial additional costs compared to the costs presently expended by federal, state and local prison authorities. The department also is seeking additional comment on a standard that mandates specified staff-to-resident ratios in secure juvenile facilities.  To assist federal, state and local agencies in their compliance efforts, the department has funded the National Resource Center for the Elimination of Prison Rape to serve as a national resource for online and direct support, training, technical assistance, and research to assist adult and juvenile corrections, detention, and law enforcement professionals in combating sexual abuse in confinement. Focusing on areas such as prevention strategies, improved reporting and detection, investigation, prosecution, and victim-centered responses, it will identify promising programs and practices that have been implemented around the country and demonstrate models for keeping inmates safe from sexual abuse. The center will offer a full library, webinars and other online resources and will provide direct assistance through skilled and experienced training and technical assistance providers. The department also funds the National Center for Youth in Custody to assist facilities in addressing sexual safety for youth.  The department is also continuing grantmaking to support state and local demonstration projects aimed at combating sexual abuse in confinement facilities, through the Bureau of Justice Assistance. In addition, the National Institute of Corrections will develop electronic and web-based resource materials based on the standards set forth in the final rule.  The final rule is being sent to the Federal Register today for publication.NoneNoneNoneNoneNone