The Justice Department secured $4.9 billion in settlements and judgments in civil cases involving fraud against the government in the fiscal year ending Sept. 30, 2012, Tony West, Acting Associate Attorney General, and Stuart F. Delery, Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Division, announced today. This figure constitutes a record recovery for a single year, eclipsing the previous record by more than $1.7 billion, and brings total recoveries under the False Claims Act since January 2009 to $13.3 billion  which is the largest four-year total in the Justice Departments history and more than a third of total recoveries since the act was amended 26 years ago in 1986. The False Claims Act is the governments primary civil remedy to redress false claims for federal money or property, such as Medicare benefits, federal subsidies and loans and payments under contracts for goods and services, including military contracts. The 1986 amendments strengthened the act and increased incentives for whistleblowers to file lawsuits on behalf of the government, leading to more investigations and greater recoveries. NoneThe Justice Departments 2012 efforts also included record recoveries for health care fraud, where recoveries topped $3 billion for the first time in a single fiscal year, thereby besting the previous record which had been set in fiscal year 2011. Housing and mortgage fraud accounted for an unprecedented $1.4 billion. Todays announcement underscores the Obama Administrations ongoing commitment to recover losses, to prevent fraud, to bring abuses to light, and to hold accountable those who violate the law and exploit some of the governments most critical programs, said Attorney General Eric Holder. Thanks to the dedicated work of attorneys, investigators, analysts, and support staff at every level of the Justice Department  along with our state and local partners across the country  we have secured the largest annual recovery in the Department's history. By aggressively investigating allegations of waste and pursuing those who would take advantage of the most vulnerable members of society, I'm confident that we will continue to build on this historic progress in the months and years ahead. The Justice Department, using the False Claims Act, recovered nearly $5 billion in taxpayer for false claims on the treasury, by far a record for any one year, said Acting Associate Attorney General West. This Administrations commitment to fighting fraud in its many forms has led to the most successful four-year period in the departments history. Vigorous enforcement of the False Claims Act not only protects taxpayer dollars; it also protects the integrity of important government programs on which so many of us rely.  Redressing fraud and abuse in government programs has been a top priority of the Department of Justice, Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Delery said. This success is also largely attributable to the brave individuals who initiate many of the investigations through whistleblower suits and to the Obama Administrations efforts to coordinate enforcement efforts across government. While today we focus on federal recoveries, the cases successfully pursued by the Civil Division and the United States Attorneys throughout the country also returned billions of dollars to state Medicaid funds and homeowners threatened with foreclosure. In some cases, the individuals and corporations involved were also subject to criminal sanctions and were required to enter into corporate integrity agreements to prevent future misconduct. Health Care Fraud  None None None None Adding to its successes under the False Claims Act, the Civil Division, through its Consumer Protection Branch, and together with U.S. Attorneys across the country, obtained 14criminal convictions and $1.5 billion in criminal fines and forfeitures under the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (FDCA).NoneMortgage and Housing FraudNoneNone None NoneProcurement Fraud The department, with the assistance of other members of the Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force, also achieved great success in the pursuit of procurement fraud, including fraud connected to the procurement of equipment and services for the military. In fiscal year 2012, the department recovered $427 million in false claims for goods and services purchased by the government, bringing total recoveries for procurement fraud since January 2009 to $1.7 billion.  None None Recoveries in Whistleblower Suits None None The whistleblowers who bring wrongdoing to the governments attention are instrumental in preserving the integrity of government programs and protecting taxpayers from the costs of fraud, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Delery. We are extremely grateful for the sacrifices they make to do the right thing. Acting Associate Attorney General West and Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Delery also expressed their deep appreciation for the dedicated public servants who contributed to the investigation and prosecution of these cases. These individuals include attorneys, investigators, auditors and other agency personnel throughout the Civil Division, the U.S. Attorneys Offices, HHS, Department of Defense and the many other federal and state agencies that contributed to the departments record recoveries this past year. The departments record recoveries this past year are a product of the tremendous skill and dedication of the people who worked on these cases and investigations, Mr. Delery said.None