Showcases Work on Merger Remedies, Unilateral Conduct and Agency AssessmentAt its annual meeting, the International Competition Network (ICN) approved new work on crafting remedies in merger review, agency assessment and performance measurement, cartel investigative powers, market studies, competition agency ethics programs, and advocacy to the business community, the Justice Departments Antitrust Division announced today. The ICN also presented the outcome of a network-wide assessment to guide its operations, agenda and future work plans, known as its Second Decade initiative.The ICN held its 15th annual conference, hosted by the Competition Commission of Singapore (CCS), on April 26-29, 2016. More than 500 delegates from more than 75 jurisdictions participated, including competition experts from international organizations and the legal, business, consumer and academic communities. Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Renata Hesse of the Department of Justices Antitrust Division and Federal Trade Commission Chairwoman Edith Ramirez led the U.S. delegation. The conference showcased the achievements of ICN working groups on unilateral conduct, agency effectiveness, mergers, cartels and competition advocacy.Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Hesse moderated a panel on monopolization and the global economy. The panel was part of the Unilateral Conduct Working Groups on-going project on the analytical framework for single firm conduct enforcement, exploring various perspectives to inform and articulate common principles of sound competition analysis. The Unilateral Conduct Working Group, co-chaired by the Justice Department, promotes convergence and sound enforcement of laws and policies applicable to conduct by firms with substantial market power.The ICN has become a crucial instrument for dialogue, cooperation, and convergence within the global antitrust community, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Hesse. The Annual Conference provides us all with an opportunity to reflect on the great progress that has been made in competition policy and enforcement around the world, as well as the challenges that lie ahead. This practical cooperation with many other jurisdictions helps to create a strong foundation for more effective enforcement in a globalized economy. We look forward to continuing our work with ICN and its members on these important issues in the coming year.Chairwoman Ramirez spoke on a panel about disruptive innovation and competition issues. She highlighted the FTCs advocacy relating to emerging internet peer-to-peer platforms, as reflected in a 2015 FTC Workshop on the Sharing Economy. This panel was the culmination of a CCS-led special project devoted to government advocacy and disruptive innovation that also produced a comparative report based on input from 44 competition agencies. Chairwoman Ramirez also accepted an award for the FTCs advocacy work involving the sharing economy as part of the Annual ICN/World Bank Advocacy Contest, which recognizes and promotes successful advocacy initiatives by ICN members.Since its founding 15 years ago, ICN has become the premier forum for promoting convergence and cooperation in competition enforcement, said Chairwoman Ramirez. In developing consensus-based, common-sense guidance on enforcement, the ICN helps its members be effective champions for competition and consumers.The Unilateral Conduct Working group provided an update of its work on the Analytic Framework for Assessing Unilateral Conduct. Over the past year, the group received position papers and held teleconferences on two topics: what is substantial market power and what conduct is exclusionary. The working group also announced the launch of a new project to analyze the effects of vertical restraints in online markets.The Agency Effectiveness Working Group, co-chaired by the FTC from 2012 to 2016, addresses competition agency strategy, operations, and procedures. The working group developed reports on agency ethics and measuring agency performance, which were adopted at the conference. An agencys commitment to its ethics rules and the evaluation of its actions are core components of agency governance. Evaluation, and the accountability it reinforces, can provide an informed foundation for future agency planning and enforcement choices and helps justify the resources an agency receives for its mission. The working group also presented new on-line training modules on setting up a new competition agency, setting priorities, conducting dawn raids in cartel investigations, applying economic analytical tools, and addressing state restraints  adding to the ICNs Training on Demand online curriculum.The ICNs members also adopted the Merger Remedies Guide presented by the Merger Working Group. The guide details the overarching principles that form the basis of merger remedies and provides practical guidance on how these principles inform the design and implementation of merger remedies. The Justice Department and the FTC were active contributors to the development of the Guide. Following the conference, the FTC will co-chair the Merger Working Group.The ICNs Cartel Working Group presented two new work products designed to aid members cartel enforcement efforts: a catalogue of agency investigative powers and a framework for sharing non-confidential information. The framework aims to facilitate improved cooperation among member agencies. Working group discussions at the conference addressed effective detection and deterrence, enforcement cooperation, leniency, compliance and sanctions.The Advocacy Working group presented an update of its Market Studies Good Practices Handbook and online Market Studies Information Store, a unique resource of over 600 competition agency market studies spanning 10 years and covering more than 30 jurisdictions. The working group also expanded its web-based toolbox on competition advocacy, providing examples of agency messages to business on the benefits of competition.The results of the ICNs Second Decade initiative reinforced the networks commitments to inclusive engagement with its members and non-governmental advisors, experience sharing and the exchange of best practices among members, promotion of convergence and cooperation around sound enforcement approaches, and international advocacy for competition principles to the benefit of member agencies, consumers, and economies worldwide.The ICN was created in October 2001, when the FTC and the Justice Department joined antitrust agencies from 13 other jurisdictions to increase understanding of competition policy and promote convergence toward best practices around the world. The ICN now comprises 132 member agencies from 120 jurisdictions.None