  WASHINGTON  Don W. Watson, former chief financial officer (CFO) of CSK Auto Corp. (CSK), pleaded guilty today in U.S. District Court for the District of Arizona to conspiracy to commit securities and mail fraud in connection with a scheme to misstate the companys reported earnings from 2001 through 2006, announced Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Criminal Division; Kevin Perkins, Assistant Director of the FBIs Criminal Investigative Division; Inspector in Charge Pete Zegarac of the U.S. Postal Inspection Service (USPIS) Phoenix Division; and Victor S.O. Song, Chief of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI). None   Don Watson made the crucial mistake of thinking he was above the law, said Assistant Attorney General Breuer.   He used his position as CFO to manipulate CSKs books and lie about the companys true worth.   In doing so, he misled shareholders and the investing public.   We are determined to continue investigating and prosecuting corporate executives who, like Watson, should know better.   Fraud and dishonest dealings have no place in the American marketplace. The FBI and our law enforcement partners will use our resources to identify and investigate companies like CSK that do not follow the rules, said Assistant Director Perkins of the FBIs Criminal Investigative Division.   The U.S. Postal Inspection Service will continue to partner with fellow law enforcement agencies to bring those conducting mail fraud to justice, said Phoenix Division Postal Inspector in Charge Zegarac. Postal Inspectors will continue to aggressively investigate those who use the US Mail to perpetuate schemes manipulating corporate earnings.   High-ranking corporate officials hold positions of trust not only in their companies but also in the eyes of the public.   In this investigation, Mr. Watson broke that trust by misstating CSKs receivables and pre-tax income in its annual reports by millions of dollars, said IRS-CI Chief Song. The license to run a business is not a license to conduct criminal activity.   According to court documents, CSK operated under the brand names Checker Auto Parts, Schucks Auto Supply and Kragen Auto Parts.   During the time of the conspiracy, CSK was the largest specialty retailer of auto parts and accessories in the western United States and one of the largest such retailers in the entire United States.    None   As a result of the scheme, CSK misstated its receivables and pre-tax income in its annual reports (Forms 10-K) in fiscal years 2002, 2003 and 2004 by approximately $10 million, $23 million and $19 million, respectively.   Watson and the former president and chief operating officer of CSK were originally indicted on April 7, 2009.   The conspiracy charge carries a maximum penalty of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine.   Sentencing for Watson has been scheduled for Sept. 19, 2011.   In related actions, Edward W. OBrien III, the former controller of CSK, and Gary M. Opper, the former director of credits and receivables at CSK, pleaded guilty to obstruction of justice in April 2009.   OBrien and Opper admitted to making material false statements during an internal investigation of CSKs accounting practices knowing the information would be passed on to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which was conducting an investigation into misstatements of CSKs expenses and income from 2001 through 2004 with regard to vendor allowances.   Sentencings for OBrien and Opper are scheduled for July 25, 2011, before Judge Bolton.      The case was prosecuted by Deputy Chief Patrick Stokes and Trial Attorney Jennifer R. Taylor of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section, with assistance from the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Arizona.   The case was investigated by the FBI, IRS-CI and USPIS.   The Department would also like to acknowledge the substantial assistance of the SEC in the investigation.   