   Today at the National Sheriffs Association Winter Conference, Attorney General Eric Holder announced that the Department of Justice will set aside $11 million from settlements with companies that produced Zylon vests to help purchase approximately 26,000 additional bullet-resistant vests through the Bulletproof Vest Partnership (BVP) Program.      There is nothing more basic, or more important, to our work than keeping our law enforcement officers safe, Attorney General Holder said. We are dedicating millions of dollars to the Bulletproof Vest Partnership Program because its vital that we protect the people protecting us every day. None   The BVP Program, administered by the Office of Justice Programs (OJP) Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA), protects the lives of law enforcement officers by helping state, local, and tribal governments equip their law enforcement officers with bullet-resistant vests.   Since 1999, over 13,100 jurisdictions have participated in the BVP Program, with more than $277.6 million in federal funds used to support the purchase of more than 805,000 vests.      BVP funding covers 50 percent of total vest costs for rural law enforcement agencies with community populations of fewer than 100,000 residents.   For larger jurisdictions, the program provides up to 50 percent of funding, depending on the annual appropriation from Congress and the amount of funds requested by the rural jurisdictions that apply.   BVP funds may be used to purchase only vests that meet the minimum performance standards established by OJPs National Institute of Justice (NIJ) Ballistic Resistance of Body Armor Standard.   The NIJ Standard, updated in July 2008, establishes minimum performance requirements and test methods for the ballistic resistance of personal body armor designed to protect the torso against gunfire.      According to the International Association of Chiefs of Police/DuPont Kevlar Survivors' Club, since 1987 there have been over 3,000 recorded cases where individuals working in law enforcement have survived both ballistic and non-ballistic incidents because they were wearing body armor.    None   