Today, the U.S. Department of Justice and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced a federal Clean Air Act settlement with several Arizona and New Mexico-based utility companies to install pollution control technology to reduce harmful air pollution from the Four Corners Power Plant located on the Navajo Nation near Shiprock, New Mexico.NoneThis settlement is a significant achievement for air quality and the health of the people of the Navajo Nation and the surrounding region, said Assistant Attorney General John C. Cruden for the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division. The agreement will require stringent pollution controls as well as public health and environmental projects that will have lasting benefits for the Navajo people. It is also a reflection of how serious we are about addressing environmental justice issues in Indian country.All power plants should be using the latest air pollution control technology, said Assistant Administrator Cynthia Giles for EPAs Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance. The law requires companies to protect clean air, and those living nearby  like Navajo communities  expect it. In addition to installing pollution controls, Arizona Public Service will also take the responsible steps to protect the health of those living near the Four Corners plant, which is one of the largest sources of harmful pollution in the country.This settlement will reduce pollution from the Four Corners Power Plant for years to come, and requires the Plant's owners to fund significant health and environmental projects that will further benefit the Navajo Nation and other communities impacted by the Plant, said U.S. Attorney Damon P. Martinez for the District of New Mexico. We also applaud the efforts of the citizen groups and other co-plaintiffs who helped represent the interests of the Navajo people and the environment so well, and who contributed significantly to obtaining such a fine result for the Four Corners Region.Arizona Public Service Company (APS) is the operator and primary owner of the Four Corners Plant. El Paso Electric Company, Public Service Company of New Mexico, Salt River Project Agricultural Improvement and Power District and Tucson Electric Power Company are current co-owners of the plant and Southern California Edison Company is a former co-owner of the plant. The settlement resolves claims that the companies violated the New Source Review provisions of the federal Clean Air Act by unlawfully modifying the Four Corners Power Plant without obtaining required permits or installing and operating the best available air pollution control technology.NoneThe settlement requires $6.7 million of mitigation funds to be spent on three types of projects, including cleaner heating systems, weatherization and a Health Care trust fund. Southern California Edison will spend approximately $3.2 million on a project to replace or retrofit local residents inefficient, higher-polluting wood-burning or coal-burning appliances with cleaner-burning, more energy-efficient heating systems. In addition, APS and the other current co-owners will spend approximately $1.5 million for weatherization projects for local homes to reduce energy use. Examples include the installation of floor, wall and attic insulation; sealing of windows and doors; duct sealing; passive solar retrofits; and testing and repair of combustion appliances.Finally, APS and the other current co-owners will spend $2 million to establish a Health Care Project trust fund. The Health Care Project trust will pay for certain medical expenses for people living on the Navajo Nation, near the Four Corners Power Plant, who require respiratory health care. The funds may be used to pay for complete medical examinations, tests, review of current medications, prescriptions, oxygen tanks and other medical equipment. The funds may also be used to pay for transportation to and from the hospital or doctors offices.NoneNoneCitizen groups including Din Citizens Against Ruining Our Environment, To Nizhoni Ani and National Parks Conservation Association are co-plaintiffs to the settlement and will simultaneously be resolving their own currently pending lawsuit against the companies.NoneNone