Earlier today, Attorney General Loretta Lynch hosted Sue Ellen Allen, Mayor of Shelby County, Tennessee, Mark Luttrell, and Seattle Police Chief Kathy OToole for a conversation about criminal justice reform. They were joined by Deputy Attorney General Sally Yates. Ms. Allen, Mayor Luttrell and Chief OToole will be seated in the box with First Lady Michelle Obama, Dr. Jill Biden and Valerie Jarrett during the State of the Union Address tonight. Their conversation focused on the importance of investing in rehabilitation and reentry programs that can reduce the likelihood of recidivism, supporting vulnerable communities to prevent them from being caught up in the criminal justice system and the collaborative work that can be done on criminal justice reform when officials from the federal, state, and local level work with community leaders.Sue Ellen AllenSue Ellen Allen knows the difficulties that formerly incarcerated individuals face after prison  both as the co-founder of a nonprofit helping inmates reenter society and as a former inmate starting over after her release in 2009. Her organization, Ginas Team, supports women in Arizona prisons and upon release, gives them the resources they need and teaches them how give back to the community. Named for her cellmate in prison who died in incarceration, Sue Ellen started Ginas Team with Ginas parents in an effort to provide women a path out of prison, back into the community and out of additional trouble with the law. She wrote the President to thank him for the launch of a new pilot program that enables incarcerated Americans to receive Pell Grants and to encourage a national dialog that includes women in prison reform. Sue Ellen is proud to be accompanied to Washington by Ginas mother, Diane, whose daughter gave her a renewed purpose in life.Mayor Mark Luttrell Throughout his career in public service, Republican Mayor Mark Luttrell has built partnerships with local, state and federal agencies, and his unique background has focused him on criminal justice reform. As mayor of Shelby County, Tennessee, he helped create specialty courts for drug, mental health, and veterans cases to provide resources for effective rehabilitation instead of ineffectual incarceration. The county also put in place measures to reduce recidivism by streamlining and pooling resources to better provide formerly incarcerated individuals with the tools they need to re-enter society. Afterward, he was appointed as Director of Corrections for Shelby County, Tennessee and served there until he was elected Sheriff in 2002 and subsequently as Mayor in 2010. Mayor Lutrell and his wife, Pat, have three children and six grandchildren.Chief Kathleen OTooleSince 2014, Chief Kathleen OToole has led the Seattle Police Department in developing its approach to community policing, and her focus on improving officer morale, implementing new policies and optimizing department resources has received national attention. Under her leadership, the department tested a six-month pilot program for body-worn police cameras focused on public transparency, and the Department of Justice awarded the department a $600,000 grant to expand the program. Last year, the Seattle Police Department presented its policies at the White House Police Data Initiative as part of its renewed emphasis on accountability and transparency. Prior to Kathleens role as Chief, she served as Chief Inspector of the Gardia Sochna Inspectorate in Ireland, responsible for developing best practices of the Irish police service and rose the ranks of Massachusetts law enforcement, finishing as the first female Boston police commissioner in 2004. Chief OToole is married to a retired police detective, Dan OToole, and they have a daughter, Meghan.