Settlement Bars Anticompetitive Information Sharing Between CompetitorsThe Department of Justice announced today that it has reached a settlement that will prohibit DIRECTV and its parent corporation, AT&T, from illegally sharing confidential, forward-looking information with competitors.The departments Antitrust Division filed suit on Nov. 2, 2016, alleging that DIRECTV was the ringleader of a series of unlawful information exchanges between DIRECTV and three of its competitors  Cox Communications Inc., Charter Communications Inc. and AT&T (before it acquired DIRECTV)  during the companies negotiations to carry the SportsNet LA Dodgers Channel. SportsNet LA holds the exclusive rights to telecast almost all live Dodgers games in the Los Angeles area.The settlement, which will obtain all of the relief sought by the department in its lawsuit, will ensure that when DIRECTV and AT&T negotiate with providers of video programming, including negotiations to telecast the Dodgers Channel, they will not illegally share competitively-sensitive information with their rivals. The settlement also requires the companies to monitor certain communications their programming executives have with their rivals, and to implement antitrust training and compliance programs. When competitors email, text, or otherwise share confidential and strategically sensitive information with each other to avoid competing, consumers lose, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Brent Snyder of the Justice Departments Antitrust Division. Todays settlement promotes competition among pay-television providers and prevents AT&T and DIRECTV from engaging in illegal conduct that thwarts the competitive process.     NoneThe proposed settlement agreement, along with the departments competitive impact statement, will be published in the Federal Register as required by the Antitrust Penalties and Procedures Act. Any person may submit written comments concerning the proposed settlement within 60 days of its publication to Scott Scheele, Chief, Telecommunications and Media Enforcement Section, Antitrust Division, U.S. Department of Justice, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Suite 7000, Washington, DC 20530. At the conclusion of the 60-day comment period, the court may enter the final judgment upon finding that it serves the public interest.NoneNoneNoneNoneNone