  Under an agreement announced today by the U.S Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Department of Justice, the Virgin Islands Water and Power Authority (VIWAPA) will come into compliance with air pollution control requirements in the federal Clean Air Act at its Estate Richmond Generating Facility located on St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands. These air pollution control requirements help reduce emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx) and particulate matter (PM) that can cause serious respiratory health effects. These pollutants are linked to serious health problems, including asthma, lung and heart disease.  The United States found that the facility violated limits on nitrogen oxides and particulate matter. This agreement is expected to reduce nitrogen oxides emissions by approximately 115 tons per year. The agreement is expected to reduce particulate matter emissions by approximately three tons per year.None  Under the EPAs air permit requirements, large industrial facilities that make modifications that increase air pollution emissions must install best available control technology. VIWAPA operates with a permit that requires it to use the best available control technology to control emissions of NOx and PM. EPA found that VIWAPA had not properly operated nor maintained its water to fuel injection pollution control system during various times from October 2005 through December 2012.  The facility also failed to meet the particulate matter emissions limit during testing of emissions from its stacks and failed to conduct continuous monitoring to ensure compliance with its limits. The EPA found that the facility violated its limits for NOx and PM. VIWAPA also did not keep proper records.None  The EPA has worked with VIWAPA over the past several years to address its violations and operations at the St. Croix facility. As a result of that work, VIWAPA has already repaired and replaced pollution controls and monitoring equipment at the facility. It replaced its data system, significantly repaired at least one unit and began purchasing better quality fuel. To date, VIWAPA has spent approximately $4 million to come into compliance with pollution control requirements and will spend at least $2 million a year to maintain compliance. VIWAPA will also pay a $700,000 penalty.NoneNone