The Department of Justice filed a settlement today with Fifth Third Mortgage Company to resolve allegations that it engaged in a pattern or practice of discrimination on the basis of disability and receipt of public assistance in violation of the Fair Housing Act (FHA) and the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA). Under the settlement, Fifth Third has agreed to maintain revised policies, conduct employee training and pay over $1.5 million to compensate victims.This lawsuit arose as a result of a complaint filed by loan applicants with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The loan applicants elected to have the case heard in federal court and the Secretary of HUD referred the case to the Department of Justice. None A second defendant in the case, mortgage broker Cranbrook Mortgage Corporation, has revised its underwriting practices, will train its loan officers and will pay $2,000 to compensate the loan applicants who filed the HUD complaint. The Department of Justice does not allege that Cranbrook Mortgage Corporation discriminated against other loan applicants. Todays settlement continues the shift away from an industry practice that violates the Fair Housing Act and the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Molly Moran for the Civil Rights Division. A persons medical information is often some of the most personal information in and about their life, said U.S. Attorney Michael J. Moore for the Middle District of Georgia. My office is proud to have participated with our fellow attorneys from the Department of Justice in reaching a resolution of this matter that protects those with disabilities from having this unnecessary, inappropriate and illegal intrusion into the most private of their affairs. Todays announcement holds lending institutions accountable for their actions, and is a reminder that every American has the right to apply for a home loan and live in the community of their choice, said HUD Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity Gustavo Velazquez.The settlement comes after an investigation by the Department of Justice. Fifth Third cooperated fully with the departments investigation into its lending practices and agreed to settle this matter without contested litigation. The lawsuit was developed and filed by the Fair Lending Unit of the Housing and Civil Enforcement Section in the departments Civil Rights Division. Since the Fair Lending Unit was established in February 2010, it has filed or resolved 35 lending matters under the Fair Housing Act, ECOA and the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act. The settlements in these matters provide for more than $1 billion in monetary relief for impacted communities and individual borrowers. None None