    WASHINGTON  An owner of a Houston health care company pleaded guilty today to committing health care fraud and making false statements relating to health care matters, announced the Departments of Justice and Health and Human Services (HHS).     Ekpedeme Obot, 34, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Court Judge Lee Rosenthal in Houston to one count of making false statements relating to health care matters and one count of health care fraud.  None None     At sentencing, Obot faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison on the health care fraud charge and five years in prison on the false statements charge.  Sentencing is scheduled for Oct. 12, 2011, at 9:00 a.m., CDT before Judge Rosenthal.     Todays guilty plea was announced by Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Justice Departments Criminal Division; U.S. Attorney Jos Angel Moreno of the Southern District of Texas; Texas Attorney General Greg Abbott; Joseph J. Del Favero, Special Agent -in-Charge of the Chicago Field Office of the Railroad Retirement Board Office of Inspector General; Acting Special Agent-in-Charge Russell D. Robinson of the FBIs Houston Field Office; and Special Agent-in-Charge Mike Fields of the Dallas Regional Office of HHS Office of Inspector General (HHS-OIG), Office of Investigations.     This case is being prosecuted by Special Assistant U.S. Attorney Justin Blan and Trial Attorney Laura M.K. Cordova of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section. The case was brought as part of the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, supervised by the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of Texas and the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section.     Since their inception in March 2007, Medicare Fraud Strike Force operations in nine districts have obtained indictments of more than 1,000 individuals who collectively have falsely billed the Medicare program for more than $2.3 billion. In addition, HHSs Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, working in conjunction with the HHS-OIG, are taking steps to increase accountability and decrease the presence of fraudulent providers.  None