None   Judge Susan Illston of the U.S. District Court in San Francisco, pursuant to the plea agreement, ordered $2 million of the total $10 million monetary assessment to be devoted to fund marine environmental projects in San Francisco Bay.  Fleet Management, a Hong Kong-based ship management firm, pleaded guilty to a criminal violation of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 as well as felony obstruction of justice and false statement charges for creating false and forged documents after the crash at the direction of shore-based supervisors with an intent to deceive the U.S. Coast Guard.  Fleet was also ordered to implement a comprehensive compliance plan that would include heightened training and voyage planning for ships engaged in trade in the United States. The training will focus on better preparing masters for command of Fleets vessels, providing classroom and shipboard navigation training to those who navigate Fleets vessels, and ensuring that all Fleet vessels calling in U.S. ports create a thorough plan for how they will navigate in those ports. The new training and voyage planning requirements will be subject to auditing and the courts supervision.None  "Fleet failed to meet its obligation under international law to ensure the crew was adequately trained on navigation procedures and equipment and then tried to cover it up," said U.S. Attorney Russoniello. "Todays sentencing should serve as a warning to everyone in the maritime industry  you will be held accountable for violations of federal and international laws."  "The U.S. Coast Guard is pleased to see an increased emphasis on crew training," said Rear Admiral Joseph Castillo, Commander of the 11th Coast Guard District. "The safety of mariners, the health of our economy, and the protection of our environment all require the safest possible operation of merchant ships sailing in our ports, waterways and coastal areas, and proper training is key to safe operations."NoneNone   In pleading guilty on Aug. 13, 2009, Fleet admitted that after the ship hit the Bay Bridge, it concealed ship records and created materially false, fictitious and forged documents with an intent to influence the Coast Guards investigation.NoneNone  The criminal investigation was conducted by the Coast Guard Investigative Service; the EPA Criminal Investigation Division; the Federal Bureau of Investigation; the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service; Silicon Valley Regional Computer Forensics Laboratory; and the California Department of Fish and Game, Office of Spill Prevention and Response. The investigation also received technical assistance from other Coast Guard offices including District 11 Legal Office, Sector San Francisco, Office of Investigations and Analysis, Office of Maritime and International Law, Office of Vessel Activities, Electronics Support Unit, Alameda and the Marine Safety Laboratory. In announcing the sentencing, the U.S. Attorney and Assistant Attorney General thanked federal and state investigators and offices for their assistance in the prosecution.  The criminal case was prosecuted by the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Northern District of California and the Justice Departments Environmental Crimes Section.