The U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of New Jersey and the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division hosted a roundtable today for community organizations, U.S. Attorney Craig Carpenito announced.The event included local law enforcement agencies, legal aid offices, fair housing organizations, shelters and transitional housing providers. Each organization was invited because they often work with New Jerseys most vulnerable populations, who could also become victims of sexual harassment in housing.Sexual harassment in housing situations might not be as visible as harassment in the workplace, but can be just as egregious, U.S. Attorney Carpenito said. Landlords and superintendents using the power they have over tenants to extort sexual favors, or even commit assaults, is intolerable. Were extremely proud that New Jersey is holding one of the first community discussions about how to combat the problem.NoneAs part of the pilot, the Civil Rights Division and the United States Attorneys Office for the District of Columbia hosted a summit on November 9, 2017. The summit convened representatives from the Executive Office of the Mayor of the District of Columbia, Metropolitan Police Department, Office of Human Rights (Washington, D.C.), Office of the Tenant Advocate (Washington, D.C.), Office of the Attorney General for the District of Columbia, Office of Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton, and U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.The U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of New Jersey is the first office outside of the Sexual Harassment Initiatives pilot program to host a roundtable on these issues. The office is collaborating with the Civil Rights Division to spread the word about options to help victims experiencing sexual harassment. Our community organizations, such as local law enforcement, legal aid offices, fair housing organizations, shelters and transitional housing providers can identify the misconduct and recommend that victims report sexual harassment to the Civil Rights Division. The Department of Justice, through the U.S. Attorneys Offices and the Civil Rights Division, enforces the Fair Housing Act, which prohibits discrimination in housing on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, familial status, national origin, and disability. Sexual harassment is a form of sex discrimination prohibited by the Act. While most people are familiar with the problem of sexual harassment in the workplace, harassment also occurs in the housing context, and the Fair Housing Act prohibits it. Sexual harassment by landlords, property managers, maintenance workers, and others with power over housing often affects the most vulnerable populations  single mothers, women who are financially unstable, and women who have suffered sexual violence in their past. And these women often do not know where to turn for help.The Justice Department brings cases each year involving egregious conduct, including allegations that defendants have exposed themselves sexually to current or prospective tenants, requested sexual favors in exchange for reduced rents or making necessary repairs, made unrelenting and unwanted sexual advances to tenants, and evicted tenants who resisted their sexual overtures. In 2017, the Justice Department recovered for harassment victims more than $1 million in damages. Many instances of sexual harassment in housing continue to go unreported. The Justice Departments investigations frequently uncover sexual harassment that has been ongoing for years or decades and identify numerous victims who never reported the conduct to federal authorities.NoneWe want women  and men  to know that if this happens to them, there is someone they can call, Associate Attorney General Brand said. No one should have to choose between sexual abuse and losing the roof over her head.Not only should victims of sexual harassment be aware of the Justice Departments enforcement efforts, but people or organizations they may tell about the sexual harassment should also be aware where to refer them to report the misconduct. Local police departments or legal aid offices may be able to help survivors, if the behavior is a crime or if there is an imminent eviction. Therefore, organizations should also recommend that the victim report the harassment to the Civil Rights Division and the U.S. Attorneys Office.NoneNone