NoneThese results were announced by Attorney General Jeff Sessions, FBI Director Christopher A. Wray and U.S. Postal Inspection Service Chief Postal Inspector Guy Cottrell.Synthetic opioids are responsible for nearly one-third of the unacceptable 64,000 drug overdoses in America in 2016, said Attorney General Sessions. Some of the deadliest drugs can be purchased with a few clicks of a button and ordered online. Thats why I ordered the creation of J-CODEthe Joint Criminal Opioid Darknet Enforcement teamback in January. J-CODE coordinates our efforts to stop online opioid sales, and it is already getting results. Today, we announce the first nationwide J-CODE operation, one that led to the arrest of alleged traffickers across America. I want to thank all of our law enforcement partners at the FBI, DEA, ATF, our Postal Inspectors, IRS-CI, NCIS, FinCEN and ICE-HSI who helped make this possible, and I want to thank President Trump for his strong support of our efforts. J-CODE is helping us keep deadly drugs out of this great country.Our work to combat drug trafficking has taken us from coast to coast and to the darkest corners of the web. The opioid epidemic is a public health crisis, and those of us in law enforcement must be relentless in our efforts to disrupt this illicit activity, said FBI Director Christopher Wray. We thank our partners in this operation; through J-CODE, we will continue to work together to target the sale of opioids on the Darknet.The Postal Inspection Service is dedicated to protecting the American public, said Chief Postal Inspector Guy Cottrell. One of the ways we fulfill this mission is by working tirelessly with other law enforcement agencies in operations just like this one to keep dangerous drugs out of the communities we serve.During the March 27 to 30 operation, FBI, USPIS, and local law enforcement made eight arrests related to Operation Disarray. Agents conducted more than 160 interviews nationwide of people who have bought or sold opioids and other drugs online. Leads from the investigation identified 19 overdose deaths of persons of interest. FBI, USPIS and the Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI) also executed numerous search warrants, which resulted in the seizure of weapons, drugs, counterfeit currency, and computer equipment. During the operation, law enforcement agents distributed literature regarding the dangers of opioid abuse, as well as, offered support for those affected by the opioid epidemic. The investigation is ongoing.NoneAttorney General Sessions thanked our law enforcement partners on the J-CODE team, to include the FBI, USPIS, Department of Justice Criminal Divisions Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section and the Organized Crime and Gang Section; Drug Enforcement Agency; Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives; Department of Defense; IRS-CI; U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcements (ICE) Homeland Security Investigations (HSI); and Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) for bringing expertise, professionalism and a shared desire to combat this epidemic. Through continued collaboration and determination the successes J-CODE will continue to forge a positive difference and outcome.