  WASHINGTON  The administrator of CardioMax EMS, a Houston-based ambulance company, pleaded guilty today to charges that he submitted approximately $1,734,550 in fraudulent claims to Medicare, announced Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Justice Departments Criminal Division; U.S. Attorney Kenneth Magidson of the Southern District of Texas; Special Agent-In-ChargeStephen L. Morrisof the FBIs Houston Field Office; Special Agent-in-Charge Mike Fields of the Dallas Regional Office of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of the Inspector General (HHS-OIG); and the Texas Attorney Generals Medicaid Fraud Control Unit (MFCU).  Okechukwu Ofoegbu, 31, of Houston, pleaded guilty today in U.S. District Court in the Southern District of Texas to one count of conspiracy to commit health care fraud.  Ofoegbu was the administrator of Cardiomax EMS, a Houston-based ambulance company that primarily transported patients to community mental health centers. According to Ofoegbus plea agreement, from January 2011 through December 2011, Ofoegbu and others at Cardiomax were involved in transporting patients that did not meet the requirements for ambulance transport under Medicare regulations, falsifying ambulance run sheets that described patients conditions and using the falsified run sheets to file claims with Medicare. Ofoegbu admitted in his plea agreement that he conspired to submit claims to Medicare for ambulance services that he knew were miscoded, not medically necessary and, in some cases, not provided.  As part of the plea agreement, Ofoegbu has agreed to pay $553,002 in restitution to the United States. At sentencing, scheduled for Jan. 24, 2013, Ofoegbu faces a maximum sentence of 10 years in prison.  Ofoegbu was originally indicted as part of a nationwide takedown on May 2, 2012, that resulted in charges against 107 individuals, including doctors, nurses and other licensed medical professionals, for their alleged participation in Medicare fraud schemes involving approximately $452 million in false billing.  The case was prosecuted by Trial Attorney Laura M.K. Cordova, Special Trial Attorney James S. Seaman, Special Trial Attorney Ronald Cummings and Deputy Chief Sam S. Sheldon of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section. The case was investigated by HHS-OIG, FBI and the Texas Attorney Generals Medicaid Fraud Control Unit, as part the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, supervised by the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of Texas and the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section.  Since its inception in March 2007, the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, now operating in nine cities across the country, has charged more than 1,480 defendants who have collectively billed the Medicare program for more than $4.8 billion. In addition, HHSs Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, working in conjunction with HHS-OIG, is taking steps to increase accountability and decrease the presence of fraudulent providers.None