  WASHINGTON  A Detroit-area social worker pleaded guilty for his role in a $3.1 million Medicare fraud scheme, the Justice Department, FBI and Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announced today.  Gregory Lawrence, 54, of Detroit, pleaded guilty yesterday before U.S. District Court Judge Victoria A. Roberts in the Eastern District of Michigan to one count of conspiracy to commit health care fraud.  On July 30, 2012, Lawrences co-conspirators Felicia Marsh, 54, and Jamie Moreau, 34, both of Detroit, each pleaded guilty before Judge Roberts in the Eastern District of Michigan to one count of conspiracy to commit health care fraud for their roles in the scheme.  According to plea documents, Lawrence, Marsh and Moreau were employees at New Century Adult Day Program Services LLC, a purported psychotherapy clinic in Flint, Mich. From November 2009 to April 2012, New Century used Medicare beneficiary information to bill Medicare for more than $3.1 million in psychotherapy services that were not medically necessary and/or not provided. Court documents reveal that New Century lured Medicare beneficiaries  many of whom were mentally or developmentally disabled  from adult foster care homes and off the street with the promise of seeing a doctor who would prescribe them prescription pain medication. When they arrived at New Century, beneficiaries were told that they must sign up for its psychotherapy program in order to see the doctor. New Century would use the signatures provided by these beneficiaries as a basis to bill Medicare for group and individual psychotherapy purportedly rendered to them. In fact, no psychotherapy was provided.  Court documents show that Lawrence, Marsh and Moreau played key roles in this scheme. Lawrence was a licensed social worker, who helped direct New Centurys operations and created documents that gave the impression that he had provided psychotherapy, when, in fact, he had not. Lawrences provider identification number (PIN) was used by New Century to bill Medicare for group and individual psychotherapy services for approximately $1,247,059, of which Medicare paid approximately $395,060.  Plea documents show that, like Lawrence, Marsh used her training as a social worker to create documents for herself and others to give the impression that New Century had rendered psychotherapy that was not provided. New Century submitted approximately $488,331 in claims using Marshs PIN, and Medicare paid New Century approximately $153,333 on these claims.None  Lawrences guilty plea was announced by Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Michigan Barbara L. McQuade, Special Agent in Charge of the FBIs Detroit Field Office Robert D. Foley III, and Special Agent in Charge Lamont Pugh III of the HHS Office of Inspector General (HHS-OIG), Chicago Regional Office.None