None  At the Presidents direction last year, a team of lawyersled by Assistant  Attorney General for the Civil Division Stuart Delerybegan working with lawyers  for other federal agencies to seek to extend federal benefits to same-sex  marries couples, consistent with the Windsor decision. The department and the  agencies have made many announcements on a rolling basis over the last several  months. To date, for instance, the administration has announced that same-sex  marriages will be recognized for all federal tax purposes, that health insurance  and retirement benefits are available for same-sex spouses of all federal  employees, and that the Defense Department will provide spousal benefits for  same-sex spouses of military servicemembers.  In conferring these and other benefits, agencies have chosen to recognize  marriages as valid based on the law of the jurisdiction where the marriage took  place (the place of celebration), regardless of where the couple currently  resides. As noted in the Attorney Generals report, however, two agenciesthe  Social Security Administration and Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)are  prohibited by federal statute from adopting a place of celebration rule for  certain programs of critical importance to millions of Americans. The  administration looks forward to working with Congress to fix these parts of the  law to ensure that Americans who rely on these programs can obtain these  essential benefits no matter where they live.  In the meantime, both the VA and Social Security Administration have sought  to extend benefits to the absolute maximum extent, seeking out all legally  available authority. As a result, for instance, the administration is able to  announce today that the VA Acting Secretary has determined that he will exercise  his broad statutory discretion in the area of burial benefits to designate any  individual in a committed relationship for burial in a national cemetery, which  will allow for the inclusion of same-sex spouses where the domicile provision  would otherwise govern. In addition, SSA will extend survivor benefits, lump sum  death benefits and aged spouse benefits to same-sex couples if one partner could  inherit from the other partner on the same terms as a spouse under state law.  This expands the number of states in which these benefits can be extended.  A full copy of the Attorney Generals report to the President is  attached.Memo