  Jason W. Pleau, 35, of Providence, R.I., was sentenced today to life in prison for the murder and robbery of Woonsocket, R.I., gas station manager David D. Main. Pleau chased, shot at close range and robbed Main on Sep. 20, 2010, as Main approached the doorstep of a Woonsocket bank where he was to have deposited receipts belonging to the gas station that he managed.  Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Departments Criminal Division; U.S. Attorney Peter F. Neronha of the District of Rhode Island; Rhode Island Attorney General Peter F. Kilmartin; Colonel Steven G. ODonnell, Superintendent of the Rhode Island State Police; Woonsocket Police Chief Thomas S. Carey; and Special Agent in Charge Vincent B. Lisi of the FBIs Boston Field Office made the announcement following sentencing by U.S. District Court Judge William E. Smith.  Pleau pleaded guilty on July 31, 2013, to conspiracy to commit Hobbs Act robbery; Hobbs Act robbery; and carrying, using, and discharging a firearm during and in relation to a federal crime of violence resulting in death.  Co-defendant Jose A. Santiago, 36, formerly of Springfield, Mass., pleaded guilty on Sep. 5, 2013, to conspiracy to commit Hobbs Act robbery; Hobbs Act robbery; and carrying, using, and discharging a firearm during and in relation to a federal crime of violence resulting in death. Santiago is scheduled to be sentenced on Jan. 9, 2014.  A third defendant, Kelly Marie Lajoie, 35, formerly of Springfield, Mass., pleaded guilty on Dec. 9, 2011, to Hobbs Act conspiracy, aiding and abetting a Hobbs Act robbery, and use of a firearm during a federal crime of violence. A sentencing hearing has not been scheduled.  The matter was investigated by the Woonsocket Police Department, Rhode Island State Police and the FBI.  The case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Adi Goldstein and William J. Ferland of the District of Rhode Island and Trial Attorney Jacabed Rodriguez-Coss of the Criminal Division's Capital Case Section.