ACanton, Massachusetts, manwasarrested today at Boston's LoganInternationalAirportin connection with the ongoing criminal investigation of New England Compounding Center (NECC) by the Justice Departments Civil Division and U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Massachusetts. Glenn Adam Chin, 46, wasattempting to board a plane to Hong Kong when he was arrested by federal authorities on one count ofmail fraud. He is scheduled to appear beforeChief Magistrate JudgeJennifer C. Boalin the U.S. District Courtfor the District of Massachusetts later today. The maximum sentence under the statute is20 yearsin prison, followed by three years of supervised release and a $250,000 fine. The U.S. Attorneys Office and the Civil Divisions Consumer Protection Branch have conducted an active ongoing criminal investigation ofNECCsince thenationwidefungal meningitis outbreak beganin thefallof 2012. Following the outbreak, the Center for Disease Control (CDC) reported that 751 patients across the country were diagnosed with a fungal infection after receivinginjections of preservative-free methylprednisolone acetate, or MPA,compounded at NECC. The CDC reported that of those 751 patients, 64 died.  Chinwas a supervising pharmacist at NECC who was involved incompounding thecontaminatedMPAthat caused the outbreak. The criminal complaint charges Chinwith participating in a scheme to fraudulently cause one lot of MPAto be labeled as injectable, meaning that it was sterile andfit for human use, and shipped to one of NECCs customers, Michigan Pain Specialists. As alleged in the affidavit, afterreceiving the MPA from NECC, doctors at Michigan Pain Specialists injectedthe druginto their patients believingitto be injectable as labeled. As a result,217of thosepatientscontracted fungal meningitis, and 15 of those patients died. Although thecriminal investigation of Chin and others is ongoing,the U.S. Attorney's Office charged and arrested Chin today after federal authorities learned that he was planning to leavethe country on an international flight that was scheduled to departthis morning. None U.S. Attorney Carmen M. Ortiz;Assistant Attorney General Stuart F.Delery for the Civil Division;ActingSpecial Agent in Charge James Royalof the Food and Drug Administration, Office of Criminal Investigations;Special Agent in Charge VincentLisi of the FBIs Boston Field Division; Inspector in Charge KevinNiland of the U.S. Postal Inspection Service; Special Agent in Charge Jeffrey Hughes of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, Office of Inspector General Northeast Field Office andResident Agent in Charge Patrick J.Hegartyof the Defense Criminal Investigative Service-Office of Inspector General in Boston, made the announcement today. The case is being prosecuted by George P. Varghese andAmanda P.M. Strachan of U.S. Attorney Ortizs Health Care Fraud Unit, and JohnW.M. Claud of the Civil Divisions Consumer Protection Branch. None