None   Our military deserves equipment that is properly built and tested, and meets specifications designed to ensure their safety, said Stuart F. Delery, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Division. The Department of Justice will vigorously pursue cases where contractors provide improperly tested or deficient equipment to American military service members.   The settlement of the Conax case reflects our commitment to hold defense contractors accountable for delivering exactly what they are paid to deliver, said Carter Stewart, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Ohio. We will continue to pursue aggressively all allegations of misconduct in the procurement process.   The government alleged that the inertia reels were not tested in accordance with contractual requirements and that Conax used non-conforming voltage references. The voltage reference is an integral part of the water-activated parachute release, designed to protect unconscious or injured aircrew members who parachute into salt water. These devices are intended to automatically separate parachutes from aircrew members when they are physically unable to do so. If parachutes are not released, they may fill with water and drag aircrew members underwater.NoneNone   This effort underscores the important role fraud detection plays in ensuring the safety of both air and space flight operations. I commend the outstanding investigative efforts of the NASA and DCIS agents and the work of USAO for the Southern District of Ohio and the Commercial Litigation Branch of the Justice Departments Civil Division in reaching this agreement, said NASA Inspector General Paul K. Martin.   Under the settlement announced today, Conax has paid $2 million to the government. In addition, Conax has reached an agreement with the Defense Logistics Agency to provide the government with 4,969 new electronic parts for use with parachute releases, which are worth up to $2.4 million.   The civil settlement resolves a lawsuit filed under the whistleblower provision of the False Claims Act, which permits private parties to file suit on behalf of the government for false claims and obtain a portion of the governments recovery. The civil lawsuit was filed in the Southern District of Ohio by two former employees of Conax, Mark Hansson and Steven Schummer, who together will receive up to a total of $810,478.   The settlement with Conax was the result of a coordinated effort among the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of Ohio, the Commercial Litigation Branch of the Justice Departments Civil Division, the Defense Criminal Investigative Service and NASAs Office of the Inspector General. The claims resolved by this settlement are allegations only, and there has been no determination of liability. None 