U.S. Attorney Richard S. Hartunian of the Northern District of New York announced today the distribution to numerous law enforcement agencies of over $9.6 million of forfeited assets seized during a multi-agency investigation of an international Internet gambling operation. Joining U.S. Attorney Hartunian were U.S. Marshal David McNulty, Sheriff Craig Apple Sr. of Albany County, Special Agent in Charge Andrew W. Vale of the FBIs Albany Division, Supervisory Special Agent Thomas Fattorusso of the IRS and Attorney Karen Heggen of the Saratoga County District of New York.The assets were forfeited in connection with guilty pleas entered in U.S. District Court in the Northern District of New York by Philip Gurian, Michele Lasso and Alan Gould, each of whom pleaded guilty to conspiracy to launder monetary instruments and Jay Goldman, who pleaded guilty to transmission of wagering information.A total of $9,628,093.75 was distributed by the U.S. Marshals Service to the Albany County Sheriffs Office, the FBI, the IRS, the Albany County District Attorneys Office, the Saratoga County District Attorneys Office and the Broward County Sheriffs Office as follows:$4,662,393.21$862,468.22$363,833.85$104,946.22$1,653,579.39$1,980,872.86All of the above law enforcement agencies participated in an investigation which revealed that the above-named defendants operated a large-scale illegal gambling business using internet websites which allowed bettors to place thousands of wagers from New York, Florida, Indiana, California, Texas, Kansas, Nevada and elsewhere. Over a four year period, at least $10 million in illegal gambling proceeds were deposited into accounts in the names of sham corporations and accounts in Panama, Andorra and the Cayman Islands. Gurian admitted having said that he was making $150,000 each day. Lasso admitted helping Gurian launder the gambling proceeds to conceal the source and control of the money, depositing at least $8 million. Gould admitted involvement in $3.8 million in transactions. Goldman admitted accepting nearly 9,000 bets totaling over $1.5 million using foreign websites and eighteen different routers.Stripping criminals of illegal profits deprives them of the fuel that sustains their illegitimate enterprises, said U.S. Attorney Hartunian. In illegal gambling, money is both the way the crime is committed and the reason for committing it. No money equals no crime. Forfeiting the proceeds and instrumentalities of crime puts the money to work for good  helping the victims of crime, funding community programs and providing resources to be used to promote public safety. Equitable sharing redirects these illegal proceeds toward the local law enforcement agencies who work with their federal counterparts and U.S. Attorneys to dismantle large scale criminal enterprises like this one. Such sharing can enable a local police chief, sheriff, or district attorney to commit the necessary resources to conduct a complex, long term investigation that in the end enhances public safety.This case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert A. Sharpe of the Northern District of New York.