Six Linked to Long Beach Treatment Program Taken into Custody TodayEight people have been indicted for allegedly participating in a scheme that submitted more than $50 million in fraudulent bills to a California state program for alcohol and drug treatment services for high school and middle school students that, in many instances, were not provided or were provided to students who did not have substance abuse problems.Six of the defendants who worked at the Long Beach-based Atlantic Health Services, formerly known as Atlantic Recovery Services (ARS), were arrested this morning by federal authorities.The indictment, which charges the defendants with health care fraud and aggravated identity theft, alleges that ARS received more than $46 million from Californias Drug Medi-Cal program after ARS submitted false and fraudulent claims for group and individual substance abuse counseling services.The defendants named in the indictment are accused of exploiting a program that was set up to help a particularly vulnerable population  young people who are confronting drug and alcohol abuse, said U.S. Attorney Eileen M. Decker for the Central District of California. According to the indictment, ARS and its employees engaged in a long-running fraud scheme to steal tens of millions of dollars from a program with limited resources that was designed to help underprivileged youth in recovery. In the process, the defendants and ARS branded many innocent young people as substance abusers and addicts in order to boost enrollment numbers and billings.The defendants named in the indictment are:Galaz and Micklo are expected to self-surrender in the coming weeks. The six other defendants were taken into custody without incident this morning and are scheduled to be arraigned on the indictment this afternoon in U.S. District Court.Todays arrests are the result of a 40-count indictment that was returned by a federal grand jury on August 26 and unsealed this morning.NoneARS allegedly submitted bogus claims for payment to the Drug Medi-Cal program for a decade, according to the indictment. ARS shut down in April 2013, when California suspended payments to the company.According to the indictment, the claims submitted to the Drug Medi-Cal program were false and fraudulent for a number of reasons, including:For counselors and supervisors to risk stigmatizing students as substance abusers, as alleged in this case, just to enrich themselves at taxpayer expense is outrageous, said Special Agent in Charge Christian Schrank for the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services. This decade-long conspiracy to defraud Medi-Cal while disregarding the true health care needs of children will not be tolerated.Previously, 11 other defendants pleaded guilty to health care fraud charges stemming from the ARS scheme. Those defendants are former ARS managers Cathy Fernandez, 53, of Downey, California; Erin Hoover, 37, of Long Beach, California; Elizabeth Black, 51, of Long Beach; Helsa Casillas, 44, of El Sereno, California; and Sandra Lopez, 41, of Huntington Park, California; and former ARS counselors Tamara Diaz, 45 of East Los Angeles, California; Margarita Lopez, 40, of Paramount, California; Irma Talavera, 27, of Paramount; Laura Vasquez, 52, of Pico Rivera; Cindy Leticia Ortiz, 29, of Norwalk, California; and Arthur Dominguez, 63, of Glendale, California.Another defendant, Dr. Leland Whitson, 75, of Redondo Beach, California, the former Medical/Clinical Director of ARS, previously pleaded guilty to making a false statement affecting a health care program.The dozen defendants who have already pleaded guilty are pending sentencing by U.S. District Judge Philip S. Gutierrez.Each of the eight defendants named in the indictment unsealed today potentially faces decades in federal prison if convicted. For example, if convicted, Miller faces a statutory maximum sentence of 324 years in federal prison.An indictment contains allegations that a defendant has committed a crime. Every defendant is presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty in court.The cases against the 20 defendants are the result of an investigation by the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services; the California Department of Justice, Bureau of Medi-Cal Fraud and Elder Abuse; and IRS - Criminal Investigation.