An e-commerce company and its top executive have agreed to plead guilty to conspiring to fix prices for customized promotional products sold online to customers in the United States. Zaappaaz Inc. (d/b/a WB Promotions Inc., Wrist-Band.com and Customlanyard.net) and its president Azim Makanojiya agreed to plead guilty to a one-count criminal violation of the Sherman Act.Acting Assistant Attorney General Andrew Finch of the Department of Justices Antitrust Division, Acting U.S. Attorney Abe Martinez and Special Agent in Charge Perrye K. Turner of the FBIs Houston Field Division made the announcement.According to the felony charges filed today in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas in Houston, the conspirators attended meetings and communicated in person and online. The investigation has revealed that the conspirators used social media platforms and encrypted messaging applications, such as Facebook, Skype and Whatsapp, to reach and implement their illegal agreements. Specifically, the defendants and their co-conspirators agreed, from as early as 2014 until June 2016, to fix the prices of customized promotional products sold online, including wristbands and lanyards. In addition to agreeing to plead guilty, Zaappaaz has agreed to pay a $1.9 million criminal fine.As todays charges show, criminals cannot evade detection by conspiring online and using encrypted messaging, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Andrew Finch. In addition, todays charges are a clear sign of the Divisions commitment to uncovering and prosecuting collusion that affects internet sales. American consumers have the right to a marketplace free of unlawful collusion, whether they are shopping at retail stores or online.Schemes like the defendants cause financial harm to consumers who purchase goods and services and to businesses who sell goods and services in compliance with the laws of the United States, said Acting U.S. Attorney Abe Martinez. The United States will continue to investigate and prosecute individuals and businesses who seek to gain an illegal advantage.The FBI stands ready to protect consumers from unscrupulous business practices, said Special Agent in Charge Perrye K. Turner. Antitrust laws help protect the competitive process for the benefit of all consumers.Makanojiya is charged with price fixing in violation of the Sherman Act which carries a maximum sentence of 10 years in federal prison and a maximum fine of $1 million for individuals. The maximum fine for an individual may be increased to twice the gain derived from the crime or twice the loss suffered by the victims of the crime if either of those amounts is greater than the statutory maximum fine.Both defendants have agreed to cooperate with the Antitrust Divisions ongoing investigation. The plea agreements are subject to court approval.None