NoneNone  Demjanjuk was first tried on allegations of participation in Nazi persecution in a civil denaturalization (citizenship revocation) case decided in 1981. Relying principally on witness testimony, a federal court found at that time that Demjanjuk was a notorious gas chamber operator at the Treblinka extermination center known to prisoners as "Ivan the Terrible." He was extradited in 1986 to Israel, where he was tried and convicted. However, after the Israeli Supreme Court found that reasonable doubt existed as to whether Demjanjuk was Ivan the Terrible, he was released and returned to the United States in 1993.  In 1999, the Department of Justice initiated a new denaturalization case against Demjanjuk, relying in large part on captured Nazi documents that came to light following the 1991 dissolution of the Soviet Union. In revoking his citizenship in 2002, the district court found that, in addition to serving at Sobibor, where approximately 250,000 Jewish men, women, and children were murdered, Demjanjuk had served as an armed guard at Majdanek, a concentration camp and extermination center at which at least 170,000 victims perished. The court also found that Demjanjuk served atNone  The removal of Demjanjuk to Germany was effected through close cooperation between the Departments of Justice, Homeland Security and State. The Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs provided significant assistance in this matter. Demjanjuks removal is part of OSIs continuing efforts to identify, investigate and take legal action against participants in Nazi crimes of persecution who reside in the United States. Since OSI began operations in 1979, it has won cases against 107 individuals who participated in Nazi crimes of persecution. In addition, attempts to enter the United States by more than 180 individuals implicated in wartime Axis crimes have been prevented as a result of OSIs "Watch List" program, which is enforced in cooperation with the Departments of State and Homeland Security.  "The removal to Germany of John Demjanjuk is an historic moment in the federal governments efforts to bring Nazi war criminals to justice," said Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer. "Mr. Demjanjuk, a confirmed former Nazi death camp guard,deniedto thousands the very freedoms he enjoyed for far too long in the United States. Now, finally, Mr. Demjanjuk has been held accountable in one small way for his part in one of the most horrific chapters in history."  Demjanjuk, a retired auto worker who was born in present-day Ukraine, immigrated to the United States in 1952 by concealing from U.S. immigration authorities his true whereabouts during World War II and his Nazi camp guard service. As a former Sobibor guard, Demjanjuk is only the second person to be removed from the United States after having served at one of the four Nazi camps constructed solely to murder civilians. In 2002, the U.S. District Court in Cleveland revoked Demjanjuks naturalized U.S. citizenship after a two-week trial prosecuted by the Criminal Divisions Office of Special Investigations (OSI). Chief Judge Paul R. Matia found that Demjanjuk participated at the Sobibor extermination center in "the process by which thousands of Jews were murdered by asphyxiation with carbon monoxide" in the camps gas chambers. In December 2005, then Chief Immigration Judge Michael J. Creppy ordered Demjanjuk removed from the United States to Ukraine, Germany or Poland. In May 2008, the U.S. Supreme Court denied Demjanjuks petition for review.  OSI Director Eli M. Rosenbaum stated, "John Demjanjuks actions helped seal the fateof thousands of innocent people during the Holocaust. He has at last received his summons from history."  "Millions have sought refuge from persecution in this country under libertys mantle.We will not suffer persecutors and mass murderers tarnishing her image by staking such a claim for themselves," said John P. Torres, ICE Acting Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security. "The U.S. government is dedicated to preventing the cynical exploitation of our nations immigration system by the worst of the worst. With John Demjanjuks removal, we reaffirm our commitment to protection of the oppressed, not the oppressor."