  WASHINGTON  The United States has intervened in two whistleblower suits filed in the Northern District of Californiaagainst the drug manufacturer Scios Inc. and its parent company, Johnson & Johnson Inc., alleging that the companies marketed the cardiac drug Natrecor for a use not approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and caused false and fraudulent claims to be submitted to the federal health care programs, the Justice Department announced today. Such an unapproved use is also known as an "off-label" use because it is not included in the drugs FDA approved product label.  Under the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, a company must specify the intended uses of a product in its new drug application to the FDA. Before approving a drug, the FDA must determine that the drug is safe and effective for the use proposed by the company. Once approved, the drug company may not market or promote the drug for off-label uses.  In August 2001, the FDA approved Natrecor for "the intravenous treatment of patients with acutely decompensated congestive heart failure who have dyspnea [shortness of breath] at rest or with minimal activity." The study upon which this approval was based involved hospitalized patients who had severe heart failure and who received infusions of Natrecor over an average 36-hour period. The governments investigation revealed that shortly after receiving this approval in 2001, Scios began an aggressive campaign to market Natrecor for scheduled, serial outpatient infusions for patients with less severe heart failure  a use not included in the FDA-approved label. These patients were prescribed Natrecor infusions for less than 6 hours on a scheduled basis over an extended period of time.  Medicare does not cover drugs used for off-label uses unless such off-label use is established to be medically necessary. The federal health care programs  in particular, Medicare  paid substantial amounts for the serial outpatient off-label use of Natrecor.  In mid-2005, a panel of leading cardiologists told Scios that it should stop promoting the scheduled, serial outpatient use of Natrecor. Scios subsequently sent a letter to healthcare providers in which it acknowledged that there was insufficient clinical evidence supporting the safety and efficacy for scheduled, serial outpatient use of the drug. In 2007, Scios released the results of a clinical study that showed no significant benefits of serial outpatient Natrecor infusions.NoneNone  The investigation was conducted by the Civil Division of the U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Northern District of California, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Offices of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, the FDA, the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Office of Personnel Management, and the Department of Defense.