On the heels of the Supreme Courts decision late last month to allow Ohios new voting law to go into effect, Attorney General Eric Holder criticized the laws restrictions on early voting, which he said were heavily used by African-American voters.It is a major step backward to allow these reductions to early voting to go into effect, the Attorney General said in a video message posted on the Justice Departments website. Early voting is about much more than making it more convenient for people to exercise their civic responsibilities. Its about preserving access and openness for every eligible voter, not just those who can afford to miss work or who can afford to pay for childcare.The Ohio law has been the subject of a lawsuit by civil rights groups and the Justice Department filed a brief in the case in July. A federal judge ruled that the law violated the Voting Rights Act and blocked it from taking effect. A federal appeals court judge upheld that ruling, but the Supreme Court disagreed and ruled the law should go into effect immediately. Absent the Courts ruling, early voting would have begun in Ohio last Tuesday.NoneThe complete text of the Attorney Generals video message appears below.NoneBefore the Shelby County case was wrongly decided, we successfully challenged efforts in Texas and Florida that would have disproportionately disenfranchised citizens of color in those states, and South Carolina had to make changes to its voting restrictions. It should not be lost on us that almost as soon as the Supreme Court decision in Shelby County was handed down, the state of Texas implemented a photo ID law that the courts had previously blocked, and that North Carolina implemented sweeping restrictions on voting rights. The Department of Justice has now been forced to challenge those discriminatory laws in court.Our work has taken us to other parts of our nation as well. We have worked to protect the voting rights of servicemembers, and to ensure accessible polling places throughout Indian Country and Alaska Native communities. And we have fought back against discriminatory redistricting proposals that may make it more difficult for many Americans to make their voices heard.Despite these efforts, in some places, weve continued to see troubling new measures that unnecessarily restrict the ability of particular Americans to participate in the democratic process. Ohio, for example, has imposed new restrictions that significantly reduce opportunities for early voting  opportunities that had in the past been heavily used by African-American voters.The early voting times targeted for cancellation  including weeknight and Sunday hours  previously provided critical opportunities for many people to get to the polls. In 2012, tens of thousands of Ohio voters cast their ballots during the voting days that Ohio has now eliminated. And studies suggest that these restrictions will disproportionately affect people with childcare responsibilities, hourly salaries, and reduced access to transportation  people who may have difficulty getting to the polls at any other time, and who are much more likely to be low-income or minority individuals.It is a major step backward to allow these reductions to early voting to go into effect. The public should be demanding the state officials who seek to impose these restrictions to justifyclearly, factually, and empiricallywhy they are necessary. Early voting is about much more than making it more convenient for people to exercise their civic responsibilities. Its about preserving access and openness for every eligible voter, not just those who can afford to miss work or who can afford to pay for childcare. Thats why a number of states have expanded early voting in recent years. Throughout our nations history, weve repeatedly seen that there is simply no good reason  no good reason  to reduce voting access. Indeed, the arc of our nations history has, until recently, been to expand access to the ballot. Restricting voting hours in ways that would disproportionately impact minority communities is not only unnecessary and unwarranted  it is out of step with our history of continually expanding the franchise. It is contrary to our fundamental values of equality, opportunity, and inclusion. And it is an affront to millions who have marched, and fought, and too often died to make real Americas most basic promise. Three brave young men gave their lives in 1964, as did a courageous Detroit mother of five in 1965, so that others might be able to vote and be truly free. Are we now to turn our back on those ultimate sacrifices?We at the Department of Justice will never rest in our efforts to ensure the right to vote. Nor will I. And today, Im calling on election officials and other public servants at every level across the country  men and women who are charged with upholding Americas highest ideals  to consider their responsibilities not to political constituencies, but to the country we all serve. To think about the deep unfairness of curtailing voting opportunities. And to reflect on their place in the history of this country to which they are potentially consigning themselves.In a great nation governed both by and for the people, our advances have always been of our own making. And going forward, it will be up to all of us to ensure that engagement in that democratic process remains the responsibility and the birthright of every American.None