The U.S. Department of Justice announced today that it has reached a settlement with the owners and manager of three Edmonds, Washington, apartment buildings to resolve a lawsuit filed earlier this year alleging that those landlords refused to rent their apartments to families with children, in violation of the Fair Housing Act.  None NoneNo family should be denied a place to live simply because they have a child, said Anna Maria Farias, HUD Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity. HUD will continue to work with the Justice Department to ensure that property owners comply with their obligations under the nations fair housing laws.  None Pay a total monetary settlement of $95,000, comprised of:$35,000 in damages to a family that they turned away because the family had a small child; $35,000 that will be used to compensate other families that were harmed by defendants practices; and$25,000 as a civil penalty to the United States;Adopt non-discriminatory policies and practices that ensure compliance with Fair Housing Act; andSubmit to record keeping and monitoring requirements for the three-year period of the settlement agreement.  Todays settlement resolves a complaint filed by the department in March 2017 which alleged that in March 2014 defendant Appleby told a woman seeking an apartment for herself, her husband and their one-year-old child that the apartment buildings were adult only. The complaint also alleged that defendants advertised their apartments as being in adult buildings. The family filed a complaint with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), which conducted an investigation, issued a charge of discrimination against the defendants, and referred the case to the Justice Department  Any individuals who believe they were discriminated against by the defendants because they have children should contact the Civil Rights Division at 1-800-896-7743, Option 96. The federal Fair Housing Act prohibits discrimination in housing on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, familial status, national origin and disability. More information about the None