Two former executives at a Dutch oil and gas services company (the Oil Services Company), Anthony Tony Mace and Robert Zubiate, pleaded guilty this week to conspiracy to violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) for their roles in a scheme to bribe foreign government officials in Brazil, Angola and Equatorial Guinea.  Acting Assistant Attorney General Kenneth A. Blanco of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, Acting U.S. Attorney Abe Martinez of the Southern District of Texas and Special Agent in Charge Mark Dawson of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations (ICE-HSI) Houston Field Office made the announcement.  Mace, 65, of the United Kingdom, was the Oil Services Companys CEO from 2008 to 2011, and a former board member of one of its wholly-owned Houston subsidiaries. Zubiate, 66, of California, was a former Texas and California-based sales and marketing executive at the same subsidiary. U.S. District Judge David Hittner of the Southern District of Texas accepted Maces guilty plea on Nov. 9 and Zubiates guilty plea on Nov. 6. Sentencing for Mace is scheduled for Feb. 2, 2018, and Zubiate for Jan. 31, 2018. As part of his guilty plea, Mace admitted that prior to becoming CEO, other employees of the Oil Services Company entered into an agreement to pay bribes to foreign officials including at Brazils state-controlled oil company, Petrleo Brasileiro S.A. (Petrobras), Angolas state-owned oil company, Sociedade Nacional de Combustveis de Angola, E.P. (Sonangol) and Equatorial Guineas state-owned oil company, Petrolos de Guinea Ecuatorial (GEPetrol). Mace further admitted that he joined the conspiracy by authorizing payments in furtherance of the bribery scheme and deliberately avoided learning that those payments were bribes.  Mace admitted that he maintained a spreadsheet reflecting payments to five individuals and that even though he was aware there was a high risk those individuals were Equatorial Guinean officials or persons receiving money on behalf or at the direction of those officials, he nevertheless authorized Oil Services Company to make over $16 million in payments to those individuals. Mace further admitted that he continued a practice that was instituted before he became CEO by splitting payments to Oil Services Companys Brazilian intermediary, that is, paying a portion of the intermediarys commission to an account in Brazil and another portion of the agents commission to accounts in Switzerland held in the name of shell companies. Mace admitted that he deliberately avoided learning that the ultimate recipients of the payments that he authorized to the shell companies were Petrobras officials. As part of his plea, Zubiates admitted that between 1996 and 2012, he and his co-conspirators used a third-party sales agent to pay bribes to foreign officials at Petrobras in exchange for those officials assisting the Oil Services Company and its U.S. subsidiary with winning bids. Zubiate also admitted engaging in a kickback scheme with the bribe-paying sales agent for the Oil Services Company and its U.S. subsidiary. ICE-HSI investigated the case. Trial Attorney Dennis R. Kihm and Assistant Chief Tarek Helou of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Suzanne Elmilady of the Southern District of Texas are prosecuting the case. The Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs also provided substantial assistance in this matter. The Department of Justice is grateful to Brazils Ministrio Pblico Federal, the Netherlands Openbaar Ministerie and Switzerlands Office of the Attorney General and Federal Office of Justice for providing substantial assistance in gathering evidence during this investigation. None