The Justice Department announced today that there is insufficient evidence to pursue federal criminal civil rights charges against former School Resource Officer (SRO) Benjamin Fields for the physical force used in handling a student at Spring Valley High School on Oct. 26, 2015.Officials from the U.S. Attorneys Office of the District of South Carolina, the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division and the FBI met today with the students family and their representative to inform them of this decision.Federal authorities conducted a comprehensive investigation into the use of force by Fields on Oct. 26, 2015, when arresting the student for violating South Carolinas law against disturbing schools. Working with the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division, federal authorities conducted witness interviews, evaluated video footage of the incident, reviewed training records, examined the policies of the Richland County Sheriffs Department (RCSD) and consulted with use of force experts.A team of experienced federal prosecutors and FBI agents considered whether Fields violated federal law by willfully using unreasonable force against the student at Spring Valley High School. Under the applicable federal criminal civil rights statute, prosecutors must establish, beyond a reasonable doubt, that a law enforcement officer willfully deprived an individual of a constitutional right. To establish willfulness, federal authorities must show that the officer acted with the deliberate and specific intent to do something the law forbids. This is the highest standard of intent imposed by law. Mistake, misperception, negligence or poor judgment are not sufficient to establish a federal criminal civil rights violation.After a careful and thorough investigation, the team of experienced federal prosecutors and FBI agents determined that the evidence was insufficient to prove, beyond a reasonable doubt, that Fields willfully deprived the Spring Valley High School student of a constitutional right. This decision is limited strictly to an application of the high legal standard required to prosecute the case under the federal civil rights statute; it does not reflect an assessment of any other aspect of the incident involving Fields and the Spring Valley High School student.The U.S. Attorneys Office of the District of South Carolina, the Civil Rights Division and the FBI are committed to investigating allegations of civil rights violations by law enforcement officers and will continue to devote the resources required to ensure that all allegations of serious civil rights violations are fully and completely investigated. The department will aggressively prosecute criminal civil rights violations whenever there is sufficient evidence to do so.None