  Bradley Eberhart, 51, of Garden Valley, Idaho, and Douglas Greiner, 53, of Eagle, Idaho, were sentenced this week in federal court for violating the asbestos work practice standards of the Clean Air Act, announced Robert G. Dreher, Acting Assistant Attorney General for Environment and Natural Resources Division, and Wendy J. Olson, U.S. Attorney for the District of Idaho.  U.S. District Judge Edward J. Lodge sentenced Eberhart on Monday to six months in prison plus six months of home confinement, followed by six months of supervised release, 200 hours of community service, and restitution of $3.98 million, in joint and several liability. Greiner was also sentenced to six months in prison and six months of home confinement, to be followed by six months of supervised release. The amount of restitution by Greiner will be the subject of further briefing by the parties.  Both defendants previously pleaded guilty on Feb. 26, 2013.  Boise-based Owyhee Construction Inc., was the successful bidder on a $2.1 million waterline renovation project in Orofino, Idaho, a rural community in north central Idaho. Greiner was the project superintendent and Eberhart was the onsite supervisor of the project. The contract documents warned Owyhee Construction that the company may encounter up to 5,000 linear feet of cement asbestos pipe (CAP) during the renovation. CAP is a non-friable form of asbestos that is encapsulated in a cement matrix. When the CAP is broken or crushed by heavy equipment or subjected to cutting and grinding by machinery it becomes subject to regulation because of the threat to public health from airborne fibers.None  This case demonstrates the commitment of law enforcement and the Department of Justice to ensure the health of our residents, said U.S. Attorney Olson. Threats to the environment and to public health may not be readily apparent from a construction project. Renovation projects like these often generate dust with fine asbestos particles that may have the potential to cause serious health and environmental problems if safety precautions are not taken. The full extent of injury from airborne asbestos may not be noticed or diagnosed for years. It is important that companies, their foremen and their operators comply with environmental laws to avoid serious harm.  These two Defendants carelessly subjected Orofino residents to asbestos exposure, said Tyler Amon, Special Agent in Charge of EPAs Criminal Investigation Division in Seattle. In the course of their enterprise, they also created sixteen separate asbestos disposal sites that threatened the community, jeopardized workers and cost taxpayers $4 million to cleanup. Todays sentence sends a clear message: if you risk peoples lives to save time and money, you will pay the price.  The case was investigated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. The case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney D. Marc Haws from the District of Idaho and Senior Trial Attorney J. Ronald Sutcliffe of the Justice Departments Environmental Crimes Section of the Environment and Natural Resources Division.