  Thirty-four individuals and 23 entities have been indicted and accused of operating an illegal sports bookmaking business that solicited more than $1 billion in illegal bets, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Oklahoma Sanford C. Coats.  These defendants allegedly participated in an illegal sports gambling business, lining their pockets with profits from over a billion dollars in illegal gambling proceeds, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Raman. Todays charges demonstrate that we are as determined as ever to hold accountable those involved in facilitating illegal online gambling by U.S. citizens, regardless of where the business operates, or where the defendants reside.  The defendants cannot hide the allegedly illegal sports gambling operation behind corporate veils or state and international boundaries, said U.S. Attorney Sanford C. Coats. I thank the IRS and FBI for their diligent work over several years to investigate this billion dollar international gambling enterprise.  According to the indictment, Bartice Alan King, aka Luke and Cool, 42, of Spring, Texas, conspired with others to operate internet and telephone gambling services first from San Jose, Costa Rica and then from Panama City, which took wagers almost exclusively from gamblers in the United States seeking to place bets on sports. Known since 2003 as Legendz Sports, the enterprise allegedly used bookies located in the United States to illegally solicit and accept sports wagers as well as settle gambling debts.  The 34 defendants are alleged to have been employees, members and associates of the ongoing Legendz Sports enterprise. The 23 corporate defendants are alleged to have been used by Legendz Sports to facilitate gambling operations, operate as payment processors, own websites and domain names used in the enterprise, launder gambling funds and make payouts to gamblers.  The indictment alleges that Legendz Sports sought to maximize the number of gamblers who opened wagering accounts by offering both post-up betting, which requires a bettor to first set up and fund an account before placing bets and credit betting, which allowed the bettor to place a wager without depositing money in advance through face-to-face meetings with bookies or agents.  The indictment alleges that Legendz Sports solicited millions of illegal bets totaling over $1 billion.  These defendants allegedly participated in an illegal sports gambling business, lining their pockets with profits from over a billion dollars in illegal gambling proceeds, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Raman. Todays charges demonstrate that we are as determined as ever to hold accountable those involved in facilitating illegal online gambling by U.S. citizens, regardless of where the business operates, or where the defendants reside.  The defendants cannot hide the allegedly illegal sports gambling operation behind corporate veils or state and international boundaries, said U.S. Attorney Sanford C. Coats. I thank the IRS and FBI for their diligent work over several years to investigate this billion dollar international gambling enterprise.  Individuals cannot skirt the laws of the United States by setting up illegal internet gambling operations in a foreign country, while living in the United States and enjoying all the benefits of U.S. citizens, said Jim Finch, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI Oklahoma City Field Office. The FBI, along with our law enforcement partners, will continue to be diligent in investigating such violations of federal law.NoneNoneNoneNone  For further information, reference is made to the 95-page indictment which can be found at www.justice.gov/usao/okw/index.html.