    The Justice Department announced today that it has reached an agreement with the city of Falls Church, Va., that will allow for the city, a covered jurisdiction under the special provisions of the Voting Rights Act, to bail out from coverage under these provisions.  Bailout will exempt the city of Falls Church, along with the Falls Church City Public School District, from the preclearance requirements of Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act.  The agreement is in the form of a consent decree filed today in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia and must be approved by the court.     Under Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act, certain covered jurisdictions, determined according to Section 4 of the Act, are required to seek preclearance for any changes in voting qualifications, standards, practices or procedures from the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia or from the U.S. Attorney General, prior to their implementation.  Section 4 of the Act provides that a covered jurisdiction may seek to bail out, or remove itself from such coverage, and therefore be exempted from the preclearance requirements, by seeking a declaratory judgment before a three-judge panel in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia.  A bailout judgment can be issued only if the court determines that the jurisdiction meets certain eligibility requirements for bailout contained in the statute, including a 10-year record of nondiscrimination in voting-related actions.  The act also provides that the Attorney General can consent to entry of a judgment of bailout only if, based upon investigation, the Attorney General is satisfied that the jurisdiction meets the eligibility requirements.     The city of Falls Church filed its bailout action in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia on Feb. 15, 2013.  Counsel for the city contacted the Attorney General prior to filing the action, indicating that the city was interested in seeking bailout.  The city provided the Justice Department with substantial information, and the department conducted an investigation to determine the citys eligibility.  Based on that investigation, the department is satisfied that the city of Falls Church meets the Voting Rights Acts requirements for bailout.     In the departments view, the city of Falls Church has met the requirements necessary for bailout.  We reached this conclusion after thoroughly reviewing information provided by the city and information gathered during the Departments independent investigation, said Matthew Colangelo, Deputy Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division.  We appreciate the citys cooperation in the resolution of this matter.     The consent decree details the legal and factual basis for a bailout determination and, if approved by the court, the citys request will be granted.  The court will retain jurisdiction of the action for 10 years and can reopen the action upon the motion of the Attorney General or any aggrieved person alleging conduct by the city that would have originally precluded the city from bailing out if it had occurred during the 10-year period preceding entry of the consent decree. NoneFalls Church Joint Motion and Consent Decree