Assistant Attorney General for National Security John P. Carlin, U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara for the Southern District of New York and Administrator Michele Leonhart of the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) announced today the extradition of Cristian Vintila, 44, Massimo Romagnoli, 43, and Virgil Flaviu Georgescu, 42, international arms traffickers charged with conspiring to sell large quantities of military-grade weaponry to the Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia (the FARC)  a designated foreign terrorist organization  to be used to kill officers and employees of the United States in Colombia. Vintila, Georgescu, and Romagnoli, all of whom were arrested in December 2014, were extradited from Montenegro yesterday and will be arraigned in front of U.S. District Court Judge Ronnie Abrams later today.As alleged, these three men were ready and willing merchants of death, poised to sell sophisticated weapons to a terrorist organization, said U.S. Attorney Bharara. It is further alleged that they conspired to sell the weaponry with the understanding that it would be used to shoot down American aircraft and kill American officers. We once again laud the efforts of the DEA to stem the flow of lethal weapons that could be aimed at U.S. officers and to deter weapons traffickers who mean harm to the United States.According to the Indictment, which was unsealed in December 2014:Since at least May 2014, Vintila has been a Romania-based weapons trafficker, Romagnoli has been a Europe-based weapons trafficker, who is able to procure fraudulent end-user certificates (EUCs) for military-grade weaponry, and Georgescu has been a Romania-based weapons broker. Between May and October 2014, Vintila, Romagnoli, and Georgescu conspired to sell an arsenal of weapons, including machine guns and anti-aircraft cannons, with the understanding that the weapons would go to the FARC to be used by FARC against the United States. During a series of recorded telephone calls and in-person meetings, Vintila, Romagnoli and Georgescu agreed to sell the weapons to three confidential sources working with the DEA (the CSs), who represented that they were acquiring these weapons for the FARC. Vintila, Romagnoli and Georgescu agreed to provide these weapons to the CSs with the specific understanding that the weapons would be used to kill officers and employees of the United States and, in particular, to shoot down American helicopters and airplanes. Romagnoli further agreed to provide fraudulent EUCs in order to make the illegal sale of weapons look legitimate.During their recorded meetings, Vintila and Romagnoli provided the CSs with catalogues of military-grade weapons they were prepared to provide the FARC. Vintila gave the CSs a catalogue of weapons that included pistols, machine guns and other high-powered weaponry, and Romagnoli showed the CSs a catalogue that included automatic weapons and shoulder-fired rocket launchers. Romagnoli additionally showed one of the CSs a sample fraudulent EUC. Vintila, Romagnoli, and Georgescu also discussed the logistics of receiving payment for the weapons from the CSs and delivering the weapons to the FARC.* * *The indictment charges Vintila, Romagnoli, and Georgescu, with two separate terrorism offenses:Count one charges all three defendants with conspiracy to kill U.S. officers or employees. If convicted of count one, the defendants each face a maximum sentence of life in prison. Count two charges all three defendants with conspiracy to provide material support or resources to a designated foreign terrorist organization, the FARC. If convicted of count two, the defendants each face a maximum sentence of 15 years in prison. The statutory maximum sentences are prescribed by Congress and are provided here for informational purposes only, as any sentencing of the defendants will be determined by the judge.Assistant Attorney General Carlin joined U.S. Attorney Bharara in praising the outstanding investigative efforts of the DEAs Special Operations Division, the DEAs Bucharest Country Office, the DEAs Rome Country Office, the Montenegrin National Police, and the Romanian National Police. The defendants arrests and subsequent extradition are also the result of the close cooperative efforts of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New York, the National Security Division of the Department of Justice, and the Justice Departments Office of International Affairs.The case is being prosecuted by the Offices Terrorism and International Narcotics Unit. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Andrea Surratt and Ilan Tuviah Graff, with assistance provided by Trial Attorney Brenda Sue Thornton of the Justice Departments National Security Division.The allegations contained in the indictment are merely accusations, and the defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.