The Justice Department announced today the filing of several criminal and civil business opportunity fraud cases, initiated as part of a joint sweep with the Federal Trade Commission and several states. Business opportunity fraud schemes take advantage of people looking for work by luring them in with false promises of big profits and leaving them worse off than they started. The cases include criminal charges against 14 individuals and civil cases against three businesses. The criminal and civil cases announced today are part of a series of investigations named Operation Lost Opportunity. The Justice Departments cases are part of the efforts of the Presidents Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force and are being handled by the Civil Divisions Consumer Protection Branch, in coordination with the U.S. Attorneys Offices for the Central District of California, the Southern District of California, the Southern District of Florida, the District of Oregon, the Western District of North Carolina, the Western District of Pennsylvania and the Southern District of Texas. Seven different business opportunity schemes are the targets of the Justice Departments actions. According to the charging documents, the criminal schemes involved placement of advertisements online and in newspapers that touted the profits that could be earned by purchasing a business opportunity to own and operate vending machines or display racks. The United States alleges that the schemes operated as follows: Salespeople explained that consumers who purchased the opportunity would earn substantial income from the equipment. According to the sales pitch, the vending machines or display racks would be placed in store locations in the purchasers hometown and would offer candy, refreshments or jewelry, depending on which opportunity was being offered. According to the sales pitch, the purchaser would then receive profits based upon sales from the vending machines or display racks. In an attempt to lure wary consumers, fraudsters have crafted business opportunity schemes that promise what appear to be more realistic returns backed up by false success stories, said Tony West, Acting Associate Attorney General. But we are more determined than ever to bring to justice those who are defrauding Americans out of their time, money, and faith in our economic system  this law enforcement sweep represents a coordinated effort to combat business opportunity fraud on multiple fronts. Although years of criminal law enforcement attention has disrupted and deterred many fraudulent business opportunity schemes, some perpetrators have not yet heard the message  that defrauding entrepreneurial Americans out of their hard-earned money will result in stiff penalties, said Stuart F. Delery, Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Division. Members of the public should be on guard for the deceptive tactics used to attract victims, and avoid schemes that fail to abide by the FTCs Business Opportunity Rule. Enticed by the promise of a turnkey business, hundreds of consumers lost millions of dollars purchasing the fraudulent business opportunities targeted in this sweep. The four businesses involved in the criminal component of the sweep include the following: None None None Nonewww.justice.gov/opa/pr/2012/October/12-civ-1217.html The charging documents referred to above contain only accusations against the defendants and are not evidence of guilt. The defendants should be presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. The civil cases the Justice Department filed allege that three businesses violated the Federal Trade Commissions Business Opportunity Rule. The businesses include: None None None None