  Odyssey HealthCare, a subsidiary of Gentiva, has agreed to pay $25   million to resolve civil liability under the federal False Claims Act arising from its billing of claims for certain hospice services, the Justice Department announced today.   Odyssey Healthcare currently provides hospice services in approximately 27 states, including Wisconsin.   Odyssey was purchased by Gentiva Healthcare in 2010.      The Medicare hospice benefit is available for patients who elect palliative treatment for a terminal illness.   Patients are eligible for palliative hospice care if they have a terminal diagnosis of six months or less if their disease runs its normal course. The majority of hospice services are billed at the routine care level.   Medicare also pays for higher levels of care, including continuous home care.   Continuous care is available when the patient is experiencing an acute crisis and his or her symptoms can only be controlled at home through the provision of skilled nursing services.   The reimbursement rate for continuous care services is the highest rate available to a hospice and several hundred dollars a day more than the amount paid for routine services.   Todays settlement resolves allegations that Odyssey submitted false claims to the Medicare program for continuous home care services that were unnecessary or that were not performed in accordance with Medicare requirements between January 2006 and January 2009.   None NoneNone  In addition to the $25 million payment, Odyssey entered a five year corporate integrity agreement with the United States Department of Health and Human Services Office of the Inspector General.      This matter was handled by the Justice Departments Civil Division, the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of Wisconsin, and the Office of the Inspector General for the Department of Health and Human Services. None   This resolution is part of the governments emphasis on combating health care fraud and another step for the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT) initiative, which was announced by Attorney General Eric Holder and Kathleen Sebelius, Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services in May 2009.   The partnership between the two departments has focused efforts to reduce and prevent Medicare and Medicaid financial fraud through enhanced cooperation. One of the most powerful tools in that effort is the False Claims Act, which the Justice Department has used to recover more than $6.6 billion since January 2009 in cases involving fraud against federal health care programs. The Justice Departments total recoveries in False Claims Act cases since January 2009 are more than $8.8 billion.      The claims contained in the complaints against Odyssey are merely allegations and do not constitute an admission of liability.   