  Tyree Davis Sr., 42, of  Flossmoor, Illinois, pleaded guilty to two counts of obstruction of justice and  two counts of filing false retaliatory liens against government officials, the  Justice Department announced today.   Davis pleaded guilty earlier  today before U.S. District Judge Michael M. Mihm of the Central District of  Illinois.  Davis faces a statutory maximum sentence of 10 years in prison for  each of the obstruction of justice charges as well as a statutory maximum  sentence of 10 years in prison for each of the filing false retaliatory liens  charges at his sentencing on Oct. 15.   A federal grand jury in Chicago  returned an eight count federal indictment on July 24, 2013, charging Davis with  obstruction of justice and filing fraudulent multi-billion dollar liens against  government employees.  According to the court documents, Davis obstructed  justice by sending correspondence threatening to arrest two federal judges,  including the judge who presided over the 2010 criminal tax trial of LaShawn  Littrice.  Littrice, whom Davis refers to as his wife, was convicted by a jury  in June 2010 and sentenced to serve 42 months in prison in December 2010.  Davis  also filed false liens, titled Notice of Maritime Liens, claiming that each  judge owed Littrice $100 billion.  Davis then notified others, including credit  bureaus, that he had filed the multi-billion dollar liens.  In addition, Davis  filed false liens against the U.S. Attorney and Clerk of Court for the Northern  District of Illinois, an Assistant U.S. Attorney and an Internal Revenue Service  (IRS)-Criminal Investigation special agent.  The liens were all publicly filed  with the Cook County Recorders Office and claimed that each individual owed  Littrice $100 billion.  Each of the liens were re-recorded in order to add real  property descriptions.   The case was investigated by the  U.S. Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration and the FBI, and  prosecuted by Senior Litigation Counsel Jen E. Ihlo and Trial Attorney Matthew  J. Kluge of the Tax Division. None