  Associate  Attorney General Tony West today announced $3 million dollars in grants from the  Office on Violence Against Women (OVW) to increase local and tribal capacity to  prosecute crimes of violence against women and provide services to victims of  sexual assault, domestic violence and stalking in the Bakken Region of North  Dakota and Montana.   Associate  Attorney General West made the announcement at the Four Corners Indian Country  Conference today taking place on the Navajo Nation near Flagstaff, Arizona.    The grants are part of the Justice  Departments ongoing commitment to protecting women from violence and  strengthening the capacity of communities to respond to domestic and sexual  violence.   OVWs Bakken  Region special initiative launched in April 2014 and is the first large scale  project targeting resources to support the expansion of services to victims of  sexual assault, domestic violence and stalking as well as aid the local criminal  justice system in responding to these crimes in the Bakken region.   Victims of  sexual assault, domestic violence, and stalking living in a vast rural region  like the Bakken face unique challenges in accessing critical, life-saving  services, said Associate Attorney General Tony West. With this new, targeted  funding, tribes and local communities will be better equipped to respond to the  increased need for mental health services, legal assistance, housing, and  training.   The five  grantees supported by OVWs Bakken Region Initiative are: Fort Peck Assiniboine  and Sioux Tribes, Poplar, Montana; First Nations Womens Alliance, Devils Lake,  North Dakota; Montana Coalition Against Domestic and Sexual Violence, Helena,  Montana; North Dakota Council on Abused Womens Services, Bismarck, North  Dakota; and Three Affiliated Tribes of the Fort Berthold Reservation, New Town,  North Dakota.   With Justice  Department funding these grantees will be able to enhance responses to domestic  violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking, and expand mental  health counseling, advocacy, legal assistance, prevention education, sexual  assault forensic examiner programs, Sexual Assault Response Teams, and law  enforcement training.   In addition,  the Assiniboine and Sioux Tribes of the Fort Peck Indian Reservation in Montana  and the Three Affiliated Tribes of the Fort Berthold Reservation in North Dakota  are each receiving a three-year $450,000 grant to support the salary, travel,  and training costs of a tribal prosecutor, who will be cross-designated to serve  as a tribal Special Assistant United States Attorney (SAUSA) in the local U.S.  Attorneys Office.   OVW grant  funds have made a marked difference in the lives of countless victims and  survivors, and we are eager to provide dedicated funding that will support  desperately needed services, said Bea Hanson, OVWs Principal Deputy Director.  These grants represent the Departments recognition that to combat violence  against women, especially in Indian country, we must be responsive to emerging  issues.  None