  WASHINGTON  The United States filed a complaint against BestCare Laboratories, Inc. and its founder and principal, Karim A. Maghareh, in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas, the Justice Department announced today.   The suit alleges that the defendants knowingly misrepresented the distances traveled by its lab technicians to artificially increase reimbursement from Medicare for mileage-based technician travel allowance fees.      According to the complaint, BestCare transported laboratory test specimens as air cargo from nursing home customers located in the Austin, Dallas/Ft. Worth, El Paso, San Antonio and Waco areas to BestCares laboratory close to Houston, but claimed mileage for ground travel as though its technicians personally drove the specimens one-way or round-trip between those cities and its lab in Houston.   The complaint also alleges that Mr. Maghareh supervised BestCares day-to-day operations and directed or authorized the false billing.   BestCare is a clinical laboratory founded in 2002.   Theres no question that health care providers are entitled to recover their reasonable costs for services they actually deliver, but we have zero patience for those who invent or inflate Medicare reimbursement claims, said Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Division Tony West. As today demonstrates, the Justice Department will vigorously enforce the False Claims Act to protect our seniors and safeguard the Medicare trust fund.   Our office is dedicated to recovering tax payer dollars misappropriated from Medicare, said Kenneth Magidson, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Texas. We are committed to aggressively litigating civil suits against dishonest providers to protect the seniors who depend on Medicare.None  This action is part of the governments emphasis on combating health care fraud and another step for the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT) initiative, which was announced by Attorney General Eric Holder and Kathleen Sebelius, Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services in May 2009.   The partnership between the two departments has focused efforts to reduce and prevent Medicare and Medicaid financial fraud through enhanced cooperation.   One of the most powerful tools in that effort is the False Claims Act, which the Justice Department has used to recover nearly $6.5 billion since January 2009 in cases involving fraud against federal health care programs.   The Justice Departments total recoveries in False Claims Act cases since January 2009 are more than $8.5 billion.