None None None This verdict makes clear that the defendant corruptly manipulated the foreign exchange market for the benefit of his bank and his bonus pool, to the detriment of the banks client, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Blanco. This case demonstrates the Criminal Divisions commitment to protecting the financial system from harm, and holding corporate executives, including at the worlds largest and most sophisticated financial institutions, responsible for their crimes. The jury found that former HSBC banker Mark Johnson exploited confidential information provided by a client of the bank to execute trades that were intended to generate millions of dollars in profits for him and the bank at the expense of their client, said Acting U.S. Attorney Rohde. This Office, together with its law enforcement partners, will continue to vigorously investigate and prosecute those who would so abuse their client relationships and, more generally, undermine public confidence in the operation of the financial markets by engaging in fraudulent schemes. This case involved a complex fraud scheme to front run a foreign exchange transaction in order to generate millions of dollars in illicit profits for HSBC, which also indirectly benefited individual traders, said Inspector General Lerner. Such cases are challenging, but important, to bring against bank insiders who misuse their positions and undermine the integrity of a major international financial institution. Mark Johnson misused confidential information to manipulate currency prices and defrauded a client out of more than $7 million, said Assistant Director in Charge Vale. The American people need to be assured that we are working vigorously to ensure integrity is upheld in financial services industries. We will continue to work with our law enforcement partners to investigate and prosecute those who engage in illegal business practices. None None None The investigation was conducted by the FDICs Office of Inspector General and the FBIs Washington Field Office. The Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs provided significant support. Assistant Chiefs Carol Sipperly and Brian Young and Trial Attorney Blake Goebel of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Lauren Elbert of the Eastern District of New Yorks Business and Securities Fraud Section are prosecuting the case. None