  Vascular Solutions Inc. (VSI) has  agreed to pay $520,000 to resolve allegations that it caused false claims to be  submitted to federal health programs by marketing a medical device for the  ablation (or sealing) of perforator veins without FDA approval and despite the  failure of its own clinical trial, the Justice Department announced today.  VSI  is a medical device company based in Minneapolis, Minnesota.   The FDA approval process and  clinical studies serve an important role in ensuring that federal health care  participants receive devices that are medically appropriate and necessary, said  Assistant Attorney General Stuart F. Delery for the Justice Departments Civil  Division.  We will not permit companies to circumvent that process and put  profits over patient safety.   VSI markets and sells medical  devices that treat varicose veins by sealing the veins with laser energy  (endovenous laser ablation).  Their products include consoles, which generate  the laser energy, and accessory kits.  Kits include needles to access the veins,  laser fibers that carry the laser energy, and sheaths that guide the laser fiber  to the area to be ablated and protect the parts of veins not being ablated.  In  particular, VSI marketed and sold the Vari-Lase Short Kit medical device.  The  kit contained a sheath that was shorter than other kits, which made it easier to  treat vein segments that were shorter in length.   VSIs Short Kit was approved  only for the treatment of surface or superficial veins in the leg, which run  near the surface of the body, and not for perforator veins, which connect the  surface veins to deeper veins in the leg muscle.  The government alleged that  VSI knowingly promoted the Short Kit for the ablation of perforator veins even  though VSI had attempted to and failed to get FDA marketing clearance for  ablation of this particular type of vein, and VSI had conducted a clinical trial  of the Short Kit for ablating perforator veins that failed to meet both safety  and efficacy benchmarks.  As a result of this conduct, the government alleged  that VSI knowingly caused physicians and other purchasers of the Short Kit to  submit false claims to federal health care programs for uses of the Short Kit  that were not reimbursable.   The settlement announced today  should make it clear that the Department of Justice will pursue companies that  knowingly promote medical devices for unapproved uses, causing federal health  care programs to pay for services that cannot be reimbursed, said U.S. Attorney  Robert Pitman for the Western District of Texas.   Medical device manufacturers  that ignore rules designed to protect patients in order to boost profits will be  held accountable for their actions, said Special Agent in Charge Mike Fields  for the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General  (HHS-OIG), Dallas region.  We will continue to work with the Department of  Justice to root out all forms of waste, fraud, and abuse in our federal health  care programs. None   The case was handled by the  Commercial Litigation Branch of the Justice Departments Civil Division, and the  U.S. Attorneys Office for the Western District of Texas.  Assistance was  provided by the Defense Health Agency, the Office of Personnel Management, and  the HHS-OIG and Office of General Counsel.   This settlement illustrates the  governments emphasis on combating health care fraud and marks another  achievement for the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team  (HEAT) initiative, which was announced in May 2009 by the Attorney General and  the Secretary of Health and Human Services.  The partnership between the two  departments has focused efforts to reduce and prevent Medicare and Medicaid  financial fraud through enhanced cooperation.  One of the most powerful tools in  this effort is the False Claims Act.  Since January 2009, the Justice Department  has recovered a total of more than $20.2 billion through False Claims Act cases,  with more than $14 billion of that amount recovered in cases involving fraud  against federal health care programs. None