The Justice Department announced that Darren Douglass-Griffin, Kerry Bolden, Emmett McKenzie and Kadarius Thomasfour former members of the Correctional Emergency Response Team (CERT) at Macon State Prison (MSP) in Oglethorpe, Georgiawere sentenced today for federal offenses related to the beating of MSP inmates in 2010 and the cover-up that followed.U.S. District Judge Marc T. Treadwell sentenced Douglass-Griffin to serve 12 months in prison for conspiracy against rights and for writing a false report. Bolden was sentenced to serve nine months in prison for conspiracy against rights and conspiracy to obstruct justice. McKenzie received a sentence of six months in prison for conspiracy against rights. Thomas was sentenced to serve six months in prison for writing a false report regarding the beating of an inmate.NoneOn Dec. 4, 2014, U.S. District Judge Marc T. Treadwell sentenced the defendants who were convicted at trial to the following terms of incarceration: Lach, 90 months; Hall, 72 months; and Rushin, 60 months.Former CERT member Willie Redden is the last defendant to be sentenced in connection with these cases. A sentencing date has not yet been set for Redden.Eight former corrections officials from Macon State Prison now have been sentenced for criminal conduct that ranged from beating inmates to obstructing our investigation, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta of the Civil Rights Division. The Department of Justice will continue to vigorously prosecute corrections officers who betray the public trust, assault people in their custody, and otherwise use their power to violate federal law.While our corrections officials have a difficult yet important job, we must insist that they follow the law and not use the authority that comes with a prison guards uniform to assault the very people they are charged with supervising, said U.S. Attorney Michael J. Moore of the Middle District of Georgia. In this case, it wasnt just inmates who were victims, it was also the public who had entrusted these officials with maintaining order while respecting and following the law.These cases were investigated by the Macon Resident Agency of the FBI, with the support of the Georgia Bureau of Investigation. The cases were prosecuted by Special Litigation Counsel Forrest Christian and Trial Attorney Tona Boyd for the Civil Rights Division, with the assistance of the U.S. Attorneys Office in Macon.