None   The Department of Justice is committed to ensuring that pharmaceutical manufacturers who make payments to doctors to influence prescribing decisions are held accountable, said Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Civil Division Stuart F. Delery. Schemes such as the one alleged in this case undermine the health care system and take advantage of vulnerable patients. None None   The Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce referrals of items or services covered by Medicare, Medicaid and other federally funded programs. The Anti-Kickback Statute is intended to ensure that a physicians medical judgment is not compromised by improper financial incentives and is instead based on the best interests of the patient.None   The governments settlement of these allegations illustrates its emphasis on combating health care fraud and marks another achievement for the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT) initiative, which was announced in May 2009 by Attorney General Eric Holder and Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius. The partnership between the two departments has focused efforts to reduce and prevent Medicare and Medicaid financial fraud through enhanced cooperation. One of the most powerful tools in this effort is the False Claims Act. Since January 2009, the Justice Department has recovered a total of more than $19 billion through False Claims Act cases, with more than $13.4 billion of that amount recovered in cases involving fraud against federal health care programs.   The settlement with Teva Pharmaceuticals and IVAX was the result of a coordinated effort by the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Northern District of Illinois, the Commercial Litigation Branch of the Justice Departments Civil Division, the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.   The claims resolved by this settlement are allegations only, and there has been no determination of liability.