  WASHINGTON  Lockheed Martin Corporation has agreed to pay $15,850,000 to settle allegations that it mischarged perishable tools used on numerous government contracts, the Department of Justice announced today. Lockheed Martin, headquartered in Bethesda, Md., is one of the worlds largest defense contractors.None  The United States subsequently brought civil claims against Lockheed Martin under the False Claims Act, alleging that Lockheed Martin contributed to the inflated amounts paid by the United States in connection with TMIs pricing scheme. Specifically, the government alleged that Lockheed Martin acted recklessly by failing to adequately oversee TMIs charging practices and by mishandling information revealing these practices. These allegations are the subject of todays settlement between the United States and Lockheed Martin.  It is troubling that a large defense contractor with long-established contractual ties with the United States failed to undertake appropriate measures to ensure the integrity and validity of the costs it submitted to the United States, said Stuart F. Delery, Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Civil Division.  This settlement demonstrates the governments commitment to devoting the necessary resources to protect taxpayer funds from the most complex mischarging schemes, stated Sarah R. Saldaa, U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Texas.  Todays settlement also settles two qui tam, or whistleblower, actions brought under the whistleblower provisions of the False Claims Act and consolidated in the U.S. District Court in Dallas. The case is captioned U.S. ex rel. Becker, et al. v. Tools & Metals, Inc., et al., Civil Action No. 3:05-CV-0627-L.  Under the False Claims Act, a private party can file an action on behalf of the United States and receive a portion of the recovery. The whistleblowers in the two cases resolved by the settlement, Robert Spencer and John Becker, will split a $2 million share of the governments recovery.  This matter was jointly handled by the Defense Criminal Investigative Service, the Air Force Office of Special Investigations, the Defense Contract Audit Agency, the Contract Integrity Offices of the Departments of the Air Force and the Navy, the Defense Contract Management Agency, the Department of Justice's Civil Division and the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Northern District of Texas.