Defendant Lured Foreign Students on False Promisesin Furtherance of Interstate Prostitution and Erotic Massage Enterprise Chief United States District Court Judge K. Michael Moore of the Southern District of Florida sentenced Jeffrey Jason Cooper, 47, of Miami Beach, Florida, to 30 years in prison for sex trafficking and related violations arising from the defendants scheme to recruit foreign students on false promises of legitimate summer jobs, and then to advertise them to customers of his prostitution and erotic massage enterprise. Chief Judge Moore also ordered Cooper to pay $8,640.00 in restitution to the victims.  A jury convicted Cooper on Nov. 17, 2016, of five counts of sex trafficking and attempted sex trafficking by fraud, three counts of wire fraud, two counts of importing and attempting to import aliens for prostitution or immoral purposes, and one count of using a facility of interstate commerce to operate a prostitution enterprise. According to evidence presented during the four-day trial, Cooper recruited foreign university students from Kazakhstan through the Department of States Summer Work Travel Program, falsely promising them clerical jobs at his fictitious yoga studio. In addition to defrauding the students, Cooper fraudulently induced an educational exchange agency to sponsor the victims visas, and caused government officials to issue the victims temporary, non-immigrant J-1 visas based on Coopers false and fraudulent offer of legitimate summer jobs.  After the victims arrived in Miami, Cooper revealed to them for the first time that the yoga studio did not exist and that he expected them to perform erotic massages for customers of his erotic massage and prostitution enterprise. Witnesses testified that the victims, shocked and upset, tried to find work elsewhere but eventually gave up and began working for the defendant.  As established at trial, police began investigating Cooper after neighbors complained he was prostituting women from his apartment complex, and conducted an undercover operation that led to the recovery of the victims, one day before Cooper had scheduled them to travel to Los Angeles, California, where Cooper also operated his prostitution and erotic massage enterprise. When questioned by law enforcement, Cooper claimed that the victims cleaned apartments for him, and characterized his relationship with them as that of an older brother.Evidence at trial included records from Backpage.com advertising the victims services, and Facebook communications confirming that Cooper recruited the victims on false and fraudulent pretenses, revealing the true nature of his erotic massage and prostitution enterprise only after the victims arrived in the United States.  Cooper brazenly manipulated and deceived vulnerable young students so he could profit by selling them for sex, with no regard for their fundamental human dignity, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Tom Wheeler of the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division. The Civil Rights Division and its partners on the Anti-Trafficking Coordination Team (ACTeam) Initiative will continue to vigorously pursue traffickers who operate internationally in order to bring them to justice and vindicate the rights of vulnerable victims. The successful prosecution and decades-long sentence imposed on Jeffrey Cooper illustrate the international impact of law enforcements united efforts to combat human trafficking  whether by fraud, force or otherwise, said Acting U.S. Attorney Benjamin G. Greenberg. The U.S. Attorneys Office will continue to bring to justice those individuals who knowingly exploit others for their own personal profit.  We are committed to working with our law enforcement partners to prevent situations where vulnerable individuals are exploited in human trafficking schemes such as this, said Christian Schurman, acting director of the State Departments Diplomatic Security Service (DSS). Because of our global presence, DSS is positioned to work with U.S. and foreign law enforcement to stop those that would manipulate instruments of international travel to profit from selling human beings in this way. The case was investigated by HSI and DSS, with assistance from the Prosecutor Generals Office in Kazakhstan; the FBI Legal Attach Office in Astana, Kazakhstan; the Justice Departments Office of International Affairs, the Miami Dade Police Department and the North Bay Village, Florida, Police Department. The case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Seth M. Schlessinger, who was previously with the Southern District of Florida and is now with the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and Trial Attorney Matthew T. Grady of the Civil Rights Divisions Human Trafficking Prosecution Unit. The Southern District of Florida was selected as one of six Phase I Anti-Trafficking Coordination Teams (ACTeams) through the interagency ACTeam Initiative of the Departments of Justice, Homeland Security, and Labor. Designated ACTeams focus on developing high-impact human trafficking investigations and prosecutions involving forced labor, international sex trafficking, and sex trafficking by force, fraud, or coercion through interagency collaboration among federal prosecutors and federal investigative agencies.