A federal jury in Oklahoma City today convicted two Texas men and a California man for their participation in a racketeering conspiracy involving illegal gambling and money laundering, announced Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney Sanford C. Coats of the Western District of Oklahoma.Rodger Bramley, 73, of Plano, Texas, Kelley Diebner, 43, of Houston, Texas, and Leon Moran Jr. 54, of Kingsburg, California, were found guilty of racketeering conspiracy, conducting an illegal gambling business and money laundering conspiracy. A sentencing hearing has not yet been set.According to evidence presented at trial, from 2003 to 2013, Bramley, Diebner and Moran conspired with others to operate an international criminal enterprise known as Legendz Sports, which ran internet and telephone gambling services from Panama City, Panama. Legendz Sports took in more than $1 billon in illegal wagers, almost exclusively from gamblers in the United States betting on American sporting events. Bramley and Diebner worked as bookies in Texas who illegally solicited and accepted sports wagers as well as settled gambling debts.Evidence further showed that Moran worked as a runner who delivered and picked up cash to Legendz Sports bookies. As part of the racketeering conspiracy, bookies and runners for Legendz Sports transported millions of dollars of gambling proceeds in cash and checks from the United States to Panama. The checks were made out to various shell companies created by Legendz Sports throughout Central America.The case was investigated by the FBI and Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation, with the assistance of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations and the U.S. Marshals Service.The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney John S. Han of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Susan Dickerson Cox and Travis D. Smith of the Western District of Oklahoma.