The Justice Department filed a lawsuit today against Sterling Heights, Michigan, alleging that the city violated the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act of 2000 (RLUIPA) when it denied special land use approval to allow the American Islamic Community Center Inc. (AICC) to build a mosque on five adjoining parcels of land located in the city.The complaint, filed in the U.S. District Court of the Eastern District of Michigan, alleges that Sterling Heights discriminated against the AICC on the basis of religion when it refused to approve the land use request to allow the AICC to build a mosque. It further alleges that the denial imposed a substantial burden on the AICCs religious exercise. The AICC, currently located in Madison Heights, Michigan, sought to build in Sterling Heights because the location is more convenient for its members and its current space has become inadequate for its religious, educational and social needs. The complaint alleges that its current facility is overcrowded during important religious observances and lacks space for educational activities, youth activities and special events.The Constitution protects the rights of religious communities to create the institutions and physical spaces they need to observe and practice their faith free from discriminatory barriers, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta, head of the Civil Rights Division. The Justice Department will continue to aggressively protect the rights of all communities to live, pray and worship free from religious discrimination and substantial burdens in local land use decisions.The law prohibits the government from discriminating on the basis of religion or imposing a substantial burden on the exercise of religion when making land use decisions, said U.S. Attorney Barbara L. McQuade of the Eastern District of Michigan. We are alleging that Sterling Heights discriminated against the American Islamic Community Center on the basis of religion and placed a substantial burden on the communitys ability to exercise its religion by denying approval to build a mosque. We filed this lawsuit to protect the rights of all of our citizens to freely practice their religion and have a place to gather with members of their community.The complaint is an allegation of unlawful conduct. The allegations must still be proven in federal court.The case was brought by the departments Civil Rights Division and the U.S. Attorneys Office of the Eastern District of Michigan.NoneNoneNone