WASHINGTON - The Justice Department today announced an agreement with the city of Independence, Kan., to improve access to all aspects of civic life for people with disabilities. The agreement was reached under Project Civic Access (PCA), the departments wide-ranging initiative to ensure that cities, towns and counties throughout the country comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).  Individuals with disabilities must have the opportunity to participate in local government programs, services and activities on an equal basis with their neighbors, said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division. We applaud Independence officials for their commitment to improving access for all residents and visitors with disabilities to the full range of city programs and facilities, including the zoo, library, aquatic center and city hall. I hope Kansans will take note of this settlement, said Barry Grissom, U.S. Attorney for the District of Kansas. It is time to recognize the right of Americans with disabilities to the care and services they need. None Under the agreement announced today, the city of Independence will take several important steps to improve access for individuals with disabilities, such as:   Making physical modifications to facilities surveyed by the department so that parking, routes into the buildings, entrances, service areas and counters, restrooms, public telephones and drinking fountains are accessible to people with disabilities;  Surveying other facilities and programs and making modifications wherever necessary to achieve full compliance with ADA requirements;  Ensuring that buildings and outdoor facilities that will be built or altered by or on behalf of the city comply with the ADAs architectural requirements;  Posting, publishing and distributing a notice to inform members of the public of the provisions of Title II and their applicability to the citys programs, services and activities;  Officially recognizing the Kansas telephone relay service as a key means of communicating with individuals who are deaf, are hard-of-hearing, or have speech impairments, and training staff in using the relay service for telephone communications;  Undertaking the required planning and modifications to ensure equal, integrated access to emergency management for individuals with disabilities, including emergency preparedness, notification, evacuation, sheltering, response, clean up and recovery;  Developing a method for providing information for interested persons with disabilities concerning the existence and location of the citys accessible services, activities and programs;  Installing signs at any inaccessible entrance to a facility directing individuals with disabilities to an accessible entrance or to information about accessing programs and services at other accessible facilities;  Implementing a plan to improve the accessibility of city sidewalks and provide for the installation of accessible curb ramps throughout the city; and  Adopting a grievance procedure to deal with complaints of disability discrimination relating to city programs and services. Todays agreement was reached under Title II of the ADA, which prohibits discrimination against individuals with disabilities by state and local governments. The agreement requires most actions to be completed within three years. For the required accessibility modifications to sidewalks, pedestrian crossings, transportation stops and curb ramps, the city will work with the disability community to prioritize and complete these modifications within five years. The department will actively monitor compliance with the agreement until it has confirmed that all required actions have been completed. None None