  Samsung Electronics America Inc.  (Samsung) has agreed to pay $2.3 million to resolve allegations that it caused  the submission of false claims for products sold on General Service  Administration (GSA) Multiple Award Schedule (MAS) contracts in violation of the  Trade Agreements Act of 1979 (TAA), the Justice Department announced today.   Samsung is an electronics distributor and marketer headquartered in Ridgefield  Park, New Jersey.   The Department of Justice is  committed to protecting public funds and guarding against abuse of federal  procurement programs, said Assistant Attorney General Stuart F. Delery for the  Justice Departments Civil Division.  This settlement upholds important trade  priorities by ensuring that the United States only uses its buying power to  purchase from countries that trade fairly with us.   MAS contracts are contracts  awarded by GSA to multiple companies supplying comparable products and  services.  Once GSA negotiates and awards the contract, any federal agency may  purchase under it.  Like many other federal procurement contracts, GSA MAS  contracts require the vendor to certify that all products it offers for sale  comply with the TAA.  The TAA generally requires the United States to purchase  products made in the United States, or another designated country with which the  United States has a trade agreement.   Samsung has authorized resellers  who hold GSA MAS contracts.  Samsung certifies to the authorized resellers that  Samsung will provide TAA compliant products and the resellers in turn list those  products on the resellers GSA MAS contracts.  The settlement resolves  allegations that, from January 2005 through August 2013, Samsung caused  resellers of its products to sell items on their GSA MAS contracts in violation  of the TAA by knowingly providing inaccurate information to the resellers  regarding the country of origin of the goods.  The United States alleges that  Samsung represented to the resellers, who in turn represented to federal  agencies, that the specified products were made in TAA designated countries,  generally Korea or Mexico, when the specified products were in fact manufactured  in China, which is not a TAA designated country.   It is unacceptable to sell  unauthorized foreign electronics to the United States, said GSA Acting  Inspector General Robert C. Erickson.  We expect all companies doing business  with the federal government to comply with contracting laws.   The allegations resolved by the  settlement were originally brought in a lawsuit filed by Robert Simmons, a  former Samsung employee, under the False Claims Acts whistleblower provisions,  which permit private parties to sue for false claims on behalf of the United  States and to share in any recovery.  Mr. Simmons share of the settlement has  not yet been determined.   The investigation and settlement  were the result of a coordinated effort among the U.S. Attorneys Office for the  District of Maryland, the Commercial Litigation Branch of the Justice  Departments Civil Division and the GSAs Office of Inspector General.  None