This week, one of 16 alleged Gangster Disciples members and associates indicted on racketeering charges in May 2016 pleaded guilty to RICO conspiracy.Acting Assistant Attorney General John P. Cronan of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U. S. Attorney D. Michael Dunavant of the Western District of Tennessee, Special Agent in Charge Michael T. Gavin of the FBIs Memphis Division, and Acting Special Agent in Charge Jack Webb of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) Memphis Field Division, made the announcement.Tommy Earl Champion, Jr., aka Duct Tape, 29, of Jackson, Tennessee, pleaded guilty on April 2, before U.S. District Judge John T. Fowlkes Jr. to one count of conspiracy to participate in a racketeering offense, and one count of using and carrying a firearm during and in relation to a crime of violence.According to the indictment, the Gangster Disciples is a highly organized national gang active in more than 35 states. The scope of the Gangster Disciples crimes is wide-ranging and consistent throughout its national operation. The gang protects its power through threats, intimidation, and violence, including murder, attempted murder, assault and obstruction of justice. The Gangster Disciples promotes its enterprise through member-only activities and provides financial and other support to members charged with or incarcerated for gang-related offenses or who are fugitives from law enforcement.Members and associates of the Gangster Disciples are subject to a strict code of discipline and are routinely fined, beaten and even murdered for failing to follow the gangs rules. "Enforcers" within the enterprise ensure that members who violate the strict rules of the enterprise are appropriately punished.Champion is scheduled to be sentenced on July 6.The FBI; ATF; the Memphis Multi-Agency Gang Unit; the Memphis Police Department; the Shelby County, Tennessee Sheriffs Office; the Jackson Police Department Gang Enforcement Team; the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation; the Madison County, Tennessee Sheriffs Department; the 28th District West Tennessee Drug Task Force; The Tipton County, Tennessee, Sheriffs Office; the 26th Judicial District Attorney Generals Office; the 25th Judicial District Attorney Generals Office; the Atascosa County, Tennessee District Attorneys Office; and the Shelby County District Attorney Generals Office investigated this case. Trial Attorney Francesca Liquori of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section, Assistant U.S. Attorneys Beth Boswell of the Western District of Tennessee and Samuel Stringfellow of the Northern District of Mississippi are prosecuting the case. 