Acting Assistant Attorney General for National Security Dana J. Boente, Acting U.S. Attorney Joon H. Kim for the Southern District of New York, Assistant Director in Charge William F. Sweeney Jr. of the FBIs New York Field Office, Assistant Director in Charge Danny Kennedy of the FBIs Los Angeles Field Office, Special Agent in Charge Calvin A. Shivers of the FBIs Denver Field Office and Commissioner James P. ONeill of the NYPD, announced the Courts unsealing of federal terrorism charges against three men alleged to have plotted attacks on New York City during the summer of 2016 in support of the Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham (ISIS), which were thwarted by law enforcement. All three men have been arrested, and one has pleaded guilty. NoneNone None In the spring of 2016, El Bahnasawy and Haroon were plotting to carry out terrorist attacks in New York City in support of ISIS during the Islamic holy month of Ramadhan (which ran from approximately June 5 to July 5 in 2016). In the course of their preparations, El Bahnasawy and Haroon communicated, via electronic messaging applications accessible on cellphones, with a certain individual posing as an ISIS supporter who was, unbeknownst to them, the UC. None None On May 5, 2016, Haroon expressed to the UC that the subway was a perfect target, that they should shoot as many passengers on the train as possible, including women or kids, and that when we run out of bullets we let the vests go off. That same day, Haroon discussed with the UC the necessary supplies for making explosive devices for use in the NYC Attacks. On May 9, 2016, Haroon stated to the UC: NY Needs to fall. Its a must.  During May 2016, El Bahnasawy, while in Canada, purchased an array of bomb-making materials for use in the NYC Attacks, including approximately 40 pounds of hydrogen peroxide (the Hydrogen Peroxide)  which is a primary ingredient in TATP (triacetone triperoxide), a powerful explosive commonly used in improvised explosive devices. El Bahnasawy also purchased, among other things, batteries, Christmas lights, thermometers, and aluminum foil for use in constructing explosive devices to carry out the NYC Attacks. Meanwhile, in Pakistan, based on Haroons communications with the UC, Haroon traveled to a certain city to meet with an explosives expert for the purpose of obtaining additional information to be used in building bombs for the planned NYC Attacks. Haroon advised that they would need perming cords (i.e., detonator cords) for constructing the improvised explosive devices, and conveyed his expectation that El Bahnasawy was acquiring all thats needed. Haroon repeatedly expressed his commitment to travel to New York City as soon as feasible to carry out the planned attacks in support of ISIS, and described the steps that he had taken to renew the necessary travel documents to enable him to exit Pakistan and travel to the United States for the purpose of carrying out the NYC Attacks.  In early May 2016, El Bahnasawy informed the UC that El Bahnasawy had been communicating with Salic  who was known to El Bahnasawy as Abu Khalid and the doctor  about providing additional funding for the NYC Attacks. EL Bahnasawy further informed the UC that Salic was a trusted ISIS supporter who had provided funding in support of ISIS on prior occasions. El Bahnasawy advised that Salic would send approximately $500 to help fund the NYC Attacks, and that the money sent by Salic would be used to acquire additional ammunition and bomb-making materials for carrying out the attacks. El Bahnasawy informed the UC that he had sent the UCs account information to Salic so that Salic could transfer money to the United States in support of the NYC Attacks, and El Bahnasawy provided the UC with Salics contact information on an electronic messaging application, to enable Salic to execute the planned money transfer. Shortly thereafter, Salic, using the alias Abu Khalid, began messaging with the UC. Salic informed the UC that he had been in contact with El Bahnasawy, and that Salic was prepared to transfer money to the United States to help fund the NYC Attacks. Salic, who allegedly maintained an active pro-ISIS social media presence, also conveyed that he had previously sent money to multiple other countries in support of ISIS, and expressed his allegiance to ISIS. For example, on May 9, 2016, Salic informed the UC that he was desperate to travel to Syria to join ISIS. Salic also expressed his belief that he could safely send money to support the NYC Attacks from the Philippines, where he claimed to be at the time, without attracting law enforcement scrutiny, stating: [I]ts not strict here. Unli[k]e in Aus [Australia] or Uk [the United Kingdom] even liking FB [Facebook] status will put[] u in jail . . . Terrorists from all over the world usually come here as a breeding ground for terrorists . . . hahahaha . . . But no worry here in Philippines. They dont care bout IS [ISIS]..loll[.] Only in west.  On May 11, 2016, Salic sent approximately $423 from the Philippines to the UC to help fund the planned NYC Attacks. Salic also informed the UC that he intended to continue sending additional money in support of ISIS in the future, stating: In Sha Allah once we have the blessings again we will distribute again. As described above, El Bahnasawy acquired an array of bomb-making materials for use in carrying out the NYC Attacks. In mid-May 2016, El Bahnasawy shipped those bomb-making materials, including the Hydrogen Peroxide, to the UC in the United States. El Bahnasawy planned to build the explosive devices and prepare for the NYC Attacks with Haroon and the UC at a rural cabin within driving distance of New York City. EL Bahnasawy helped to secure such a cabin for a period beginning in late May 2016, when he planned to arrive in the New York City area. El Bahnasawy informed the UC that the cabin would need to contain a refrigerator for purposes of making the explosives, and that El Bahnasawy wanted to practise shooting at the cabin site if it was not too close to people. On May 12, 2016, when the UC sent Salic a photograph of the Hydrogen Peroxide that El Bahnasawy had purchased for use in the NYC Attacks, Salic reiterated his support for the planned attacks, and Salic also conveyed that if he was unable to travel to Syria to join ISIS, he might carry out an attack himself. During subsequent communications with the UC, Salic described New York City as the capital of Kufr [Kuffar], and stated that [i]t would be a great pleasure if we can slaughter people in New York City. Salic further conveyed to the UC that he would be praying to Allah for the success of the operation when the planned attacks were imminent. None On May 21, 2016, El Bahnasawy traveled from Canada to the New York City area, in preparation for staging and ultimately carrying out the NYC Attacks with Haroon. In coordination with Canadian law enforcement, U.S. law enforcement closely monitored El Bahnasawys travel to the United States on May 21, 2016, and El Bahnasawy was arrested by the FBI that night in Cranford, New Jersey. Haroon was subsequently arrested in Pakistan based on the charges in the Haroon Complaint, and Salic was subsequently arrested in the Philippines based on the charges in the Salic Complaint.  * * * The chart below reflects: (i) the charges in the Superseding Information to which El Bahnasawy, 19, of Mississauga, Canada, pled guilty; (ii) the charges in the Haroon Complaint filed against Haroon, 19, a U.S. citizen residing in Pakistan; and (iii) the charges in the Salic Complaint filed against Salic, 37, of the Philippines. CHARGESTATUTEDEFENDANTS CHARGED (COUNT)MAXIMUM PENALTYConspiracy to use weapons of mass destruction18 U.S.C.  2332aEl Bahnasawy (1)Haroon (1)Salic (1)Life in prisonConspiracy to commit acts of terrorism transcending national boundaries18 U.S.C.  2332bEl Bahnasawy (2)Haroon (2)Salic (2)Life in prisonConspiracy to bomb a place of public use and public transportation system18 U.S.C.  2332fEl Bahnasawy (3)Haroon (3)Salic (3)Life in prisonConspiracy to provide material support and resources to terrorists18 U.S.C.  2339AEl Bahnasawy (4)Haroon (4)Salic (4)15 years in prisonAttempted provision and provision of material support and resources to terrorists18 U.S.C.  2339AEl Bahnasawy (5)Salic (5)15 years in prisonConspiracy to provide material support and resources to a designated foreign terrorist organization, i.e., ISIS18 U.S.C.  2339BEl Bahnasawy (6)Haroon (5)Salic (6)20 years in prisonAttempted provision and provision of material support and resources to a designated foreign terrorist organization, i.e., ISIS18 U.S.C.  2339BEl Bahnasawy (7)Salic (7)20 years in prison The maximum potential sentences in this case are prescribed by Congress and are provided here for informational purposes only, as any sentencing of the defendants will be determined by a judge. The charges contained in the Haroon Complaint and the Salic Complaint are merely accusations, and Haroon and Salic are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. None Mr. Boente and Mr. Kim praised the outstanding efforts of the FBIs New York Joint Terrorism Task Force, which principally consists of agents from the FBI and detectives from the NYPD, and the FBIs Los Angeles and Denver Field Offices. Mr. Kim also thanked the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, the FBIs Cleveland Field Office, the FBIs Legal Attach Offices in Canada, Pakistan, and the Philippines, the New York State Police, the Department of Justices Office of International Affairs, the Counterterrorism Section of the Department of Justices National Security Division, and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Central District of California for their assistance. Assistant U.S. Attorneys George D. Turner and Negar Tekeei of the Southern District of New York are in charge of the prosecution, with assistance from Trial Attorneys Joshua Champagne and Larry Schneider of the National Security Divisions Counterterrorism Section. NoneNoneNoneNoneNone