The Justice Department announced today that, jointly with the state of Mississippi and city of Meridian, Mississippi, it has reached settlement agreements to prevent and address unconstitutional youth arrests and probation practices by the Meridian Police Department and the Mississippi Division of Youth Services, and submitted them to the court for approval.NoneThe departments allegations that defendants Lauderdale County and the Lauderdale County Youth Court Judges failed to provide basic due process protections for children have not been resolved, and remain in litigation.NoneThe agreement with the state of Mississippi addresses the departments claims of unconstitutional youth probation practices by the Mississippi Division of Youth Services. The settlement agreement requires state probation officers to implement measures to protect youths privilege against self-incrimination, including providing youths with age-appropriate explanations of their rights and the probationary process. The agreement also includes requirements for the contracts that establish the restrictions and rules that youth on probation must comply with. These contracts must be written in terms that are easily understandable to youths and that prevent arbitrary and discriminatory enforcement, and include a clear explanation of the youths rights. The agreement prohibits probation officers from recommending incarcerating youths for violations of their probation contracts that would not otherwise amount to detainable offenses, unless and until all other reasonable alternatives to incarceration have been exhausted.We commend the city of Meridian and the state of Mississippis Department of Human Services and Division of Youth Services for taking these important steps toward ensuring that school disciplinary issues are not inappropriately criminalized,  said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta of the Civil Rights Division. Going forward, the Department of Justice expects to work with Meridian and the state of Mississippi to ensure that childrens constitutional rights are protected in police and probation practices.These agreements will help protect the children of Meridian from deprivations of educational opportunity as well as due process, said U.S. Attorney Gregory K. Davis of the Southern District of Mississippi.Each agreement will be monitored by an independent auditor who will report publicly to the federal court.Under the agreements, the city and state will work with the United States and independent auditors to establish community input programs. These programs shall include semiannual open meetings, to be held in a publicly-accessible location, where the state and city will inform the public about progress in implementing the agreements and address community concerns related to the substantive areas covered by the agreements.NoneNoneThe Justice Department will be hosting a telephonic community conference call open to members of the public on Monday, June 22, 2015, at 6:30 p.m., CDT. The purpose of this call is to provide community members with information about the investigation and complaint. To participate in the call, dial the following toll-free number: 877-675-0879. When prompted by the operator, provide your name and the pass code: 4611051.