None    The 17 count superseding indictment was returned by a federal grand jury on Oct. 22, 2012, and unsealed today in U.S. District Court in the Southern District of Texas. Fourteen individuals were taken into custody today, and 15 defendants charged in the superseding indictment are already in custody. Five defendants remain at large.     Todays takedown represents a devastating blow to the leadership of ABT, said Assistant Attorney General Breuer. Four ABT generals, 13 additional alleged ABT leaders, and numerous other gang members and associates are named in the indictment. As charged, ABT uses extreme violence and threats of violence to maintain internal discipline and retaliate against those believed to be cooperating with law enforcement. Through violence and intimidation, ABT allegedly exerts control over prison populations and neighborhoods, and instills fear in those who come in contact with its members. As todays operations show, the Criminal Division, working closely with its federal, state, and local law enforcement partners, is determined to continue disrupting and dismantling ABT and other violent, criminal gangs.     This indictment is the culmination of a joint federal, state and local law enforcement effort targeting a large-scale prison gang involved in violent organized crime, said U.S. Attorney Magidson. Only when we work in partnership utilizing all our resources can we attack a criminal organization and dismantle it entirely.     ATF is serious about fighting violent crime. We remain steadfast in our commitment to focus on those violent criminals who illegally use firearms to prey on their victims, said ATF Special Agent in Charge King. Through a collective effort with our law enforcement partners this operation was a success today. None     As charged, the defendants range from senior leaders to soldiers of the ABT, a whites only, prison-based gang with members operating inside and outside of state and federal prisons throughout Texas and elsewhere in the United States since at least the early 1980s.      According to court documents, the ABT has a detailed and uniform organizational structure, with territory divided into five regions, each run by a general. The superseding indictment charges four generals, Terry Ross Blake, 55, aka Big Terry; Larry Max Bryan, 51, aka Slick; William David Maynard, 42, aka Baby Huey; and Charles Lee Roberts, 68, aka Jive, with conspiracy to participate in the racketeering activities of the ABT, among other charges.     In total, the superseding indictment charges 34 alleged members of the ABT with conspiracy to participate in the racketeering activities of the ABT. Alleged members of the ABT are also charged with involvement in three murders, multiple attempted murders, kidnappings, assaults and conspiracy to distribute methamphetamine and cocaine.     According to the superseding indictment, the ABT was established in the early 1980s within the Texas prison system. The gang modeled itself after and adopted many of the precepts and writings of the Aryan Brotherhood, a California-based prison gang that was formed in the California prison system during the 1960s. According to court documents, previously, the ABT was primarily concerned with the protection of white inmates and white supremacy/separatism. Over time, the ABT is alleged to have has expanded its criminal enterprise to include illegal activities for profit.     Court documents allege that the ABT enforced its rules and promoted discipline among its members, prospects and associates through murder, attempted murder, conspiracy to murder, arson, assault, robbery and threats against those who violate the rules or pose a threat to the enterprise. Members, and oftentimes associates, were required to follow the orders of higher-ranking members, often referred to as direct orders. NoneNoneNone None    The case is being prosecuted by David Karpel of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Jay Hileman of the Southern District of Texas.None