  WASHINGTON - A federal grand jury in Greenbelt, Md., has indicted George Sell, 68, of Cumberland, Md., for advertising, transporting, receiving and possessing child pornography in connection with his operation of an online bulletin board in which members circulated images of child pornography and links to other child pornography websites.    The indictment, returned on Aug. 30, 2010, and unsealed today, was announced by Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Criminal Division; U.S. Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein for the District of Maryland; Acting Postal Inspector in Charge Keith A. Fixel of the U.S. Postal Inspection Service (USPIS) - Washington Division; and Special Agent in Charge William Winter of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), Office of Homeland Security Investigations.   According to the 10-count indictment, Country Lounge is a secure web-based bulletin board that at various times during the conspiracy was located on servers in Virginia and Texas, which advertised and offered for dissemination pictures and Internet web addresses directing members to secure websites depicting the sexual abuse of minors. A member could join this group only upon invitation and after approval by the groups administrators. To obtain access to Country Lounge, a member had to have a log-in username and password. Members were instructed by a specific set of rules and guidelines on how to post images using Country Lounge in order to avoid detection from law enforcement. As of August 2008, 142 members belonged to Country Lounge.   The indictment alleges that Sell managed the day-to-day operations of Country Lounge. From December 2006 to August 2008, Sell allegedly conspired with others to publish notices and advertisements on Country Lounge, seeking and offering to trade and distribute Internet web addresses directing members to websites depicting the sexual abuse of minors. Sell, along with other co-conspirators, allegedly arranged for and obtained different web host companies to host County Lounge on computer servers maintained by members of the conspiracy, and decided and assigned a hierarchy of administrators and membership levels to Country Lounge members. Each level of membership contained different duties and responsibilities. NoneNone None   The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Stacy Belf, and CEOS Trial Attorneys Darcy Katzin and Jennifer Toritto Leonardo. The case was investigated by the USPIS and ICE.