An Everett man was sentenced today to 28 years in prison for conspiring with others to provide material support to the Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham (ISIS) and kill persons in the United States.David Daoud Wright, a/k/a Dawud Sharif Abdul Khaliq, a/k/a Dawud Sharif Abdul Khaliq, 28, of Everett, Mass., was sentenced by U.S. District Court Judge William G. Young to 28 years in prison. In October 2017, Wright was convicted by a federal jury of conspiracy to provide material support to ISIS, conspiracy to commit acts of terrorism transcending national boundaries, conspiracy to obstruct justice, and obstruction of justice.David Wright conspired with others to commit violent attacks here in the United States at the direction of ISIS, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Boente. This successful prosecution demonstrates that the Department of Justice will not waver in its commitment to bring justice to those who provide support and encourage violence on behalf of ruthless terrorist organizations.NoneBeginning in at least February 2015, Wright began discussing ISIS call to kill non-believers in the United States with his uncle, Usaamah Abdullah Rahim, and co-defendant Nicholas Alexander Rovinski. Specifically, Wright created a martyrdom operation cell in Massachusetts. In April 2015, he created a Twitter page for the Lions of America and published a document entitled, Internal Conquest, on the internet in which Wright called on the Lions of Allah to kill Americans.Wright also plotted with Rahim and Rovinski to behead U.S. citizens at the direction of ISIS, and identified a New York woman as the first beheading target. Rahim purchased three knives for this plot. In addition, Wright knew Rahim was communicating with an ISIS member in Syria, Junaid Hussain, who provided Rahim with an encrypted document containing details about the intended victim. In August 2015, Hussain was killed in an airstrike in Raqqah, Syria.In preparation for their attack, Wright conducted extensive research on weapons, knives, machetes, bombing making components, and methods to subdue their victims. Wright also conducted research on how to start a secret militia in the United States. On June 2, 2015, Rahim was shot and killed after he attacked law enforcement officers in a Roslindale, Mass., parking lot. Two hours before Rahim attacked the police, Wright had encouraged and motivated Rahim to pursue martyrdom by attacking the boys in blue. Within minutes of learning of his Uncles death from a family member, Wright deleted data from his laptop computer by restoring it to factory settings and deleted call logs on his cellphone that showed that he had spoken to Rahim that morning.In September 2016, Rovinski pleaded guilty to conspiring to provide material support to ISIS and conspiring to commit acts of terrorism transcending national boundaries, and will be sentenced tomorrow.None