A Barrio Azteca (BA) gang lieutenant pleaded guilty today for his participation in a racketeering and drug trafficking conspiracy. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division; U.S. Attorney Richard L. Durbin Jr. of the Western District of Texas; Special Agent in Charge Douglas Lindquist of the FBIs El Paso, Texas, Office; and Special Agent in Charge Will Glaspy of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) El Paso Division made the announcement.Ricardo Valles De La Rosa (Valles), aka Chino, 52, of El Paso, pleaded guilty today before U.S. District Judge Kathleen Cardone of the Western District of Texas to racketeering conspiracy; conspiracy to distribute and possess with intent to distribute controlled substances; conspiracy to import heroin, cocaine and marijuana; and conspiracy to commit money laundering. As part of his plea, Valles agreed that he conspired to commit murder in a foreign country. Sentencing has been scheduled for March 23, 2017. Valles is one of 35 members and associates of the BA gang charged in a third superseding indictment unsealed in March 2011, with various counts of racketeering, murder, drug offenses, money laundering and obstruction of justice. According to plea agreements and other court documents and information presented in court throughout this case, the BA gang began operating in the late 1980s as a violent prison gang and has expanded into a transnational criminal organization based in West Texas; Juarez, Mexico; and throughout state and federal prisons in the United States and Mexico. The gang has a militaristic command structure and includes captains, lieutenants, sergeants, soldiers and associates  all with the purpose of maintaining power and enriching its members and associates through drug trafficking, money laundering, extortion, intimidation, violence, threats of violence and murder. The BA profits by importing heroin, cocaine and marijuana into the United States from Mexico. Gang members and associates also charge a street tax or cuota to businesses and criminals operating in their turf, which profits are used to funnel money into prison commissary accounts and to pay for defense lawyers or fines to support imprisoned BA members. The cuota profits are also reinvested into the organization to purchase drugs, guns and ammunition.According to plea agreements by other defendants in this investigation, members and associates of the BA have engaged in a host of criminal activity committed since Jan. 1, 2003, ranging from drug trafficking, extortion and money laundering to kidnapping and homicides, including the March 13, 2010, murders in Juarez of a U.S. consulate employee and her husband, as well as the husband of another U.S. consulate employee. The BA killed these individuals because they were mistakenly believed to be rivals associated with the Joaquin El Chapo Guzman Drug Trafficking Organization.NoneNoneOf the 35 defendants charged in this case, 33 have been apprehended, 25 of whom have pleaded guilty and one was found guilty at trial. Valles, Luis Hernandez Celis, aka Pac, and Alberto Nunez Payan, aka Fresa, were extradited from Mexico in October 2015.Of the 35 defendants charged in this case, 33 have been apprehended, 25 of whom have pleaded guilty and one was found guilty at trial. Valles, Luis Hernandez Celis, aka Pac, and Alberto Nunez Payan, aka Fresa, were extradited from Mexico in October 2015.FBIs El Paso Field Office, Albuquerque Field Office (Las Cruces Resident Agency); DEA Juarez; and DEA El Paso investigated the case. The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement; U.S. Marshals Service; U.S. Customs and Border Protection; BOP; U.S. Diplomatic Security Service; Texas Department of Public Safety; Texas Department of Criminal Justice; El Paso Police Department; El Paso County Sheriffs Office; El Paso Independent School District Police Department; Texas Alcohol and Beverage Commission; New Mexico State Police; Dona Ana County, New Mexico, Sheriffs Office; Las Cruces, New Mexico, Police Department; Southern New Mexico Correctional Facility; and Otero County Prison Facility New Mexico provided substantial assistance in the investigation. Trial Attorneys Joseph A. Cooley and John C. Hanley of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section, Trial Attorney Jay A. Bauer of the Criminal Divisions Human Rights and Special Prosecutions Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney John Gibson of the Western District of Texas-El Paso Division are prosecuting the case. The Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs and Office of Enforcement Operations provided valuable assistance in this matter.