NoneNoneNoneNone  Carmelo Oria ordered the ships crewmembers to bypass required environmental controls and pump oil-contaminated water from the ships bilge directly into the ocean. He then falsified the ships records in an attempt to conceal his actions, said John C. Cruden, Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division. As long as individuals and companies continue to bypass this nations environmental laws, the Justice Department will continue to bring cases and seek justice for those involved.  Our hope is that this case will send a strong message to those in the maritime community who might try to circumvent our nations anti-pollution laws. It is necessary to ensure that the companies realize that violating our environmental laws will be taken seriously, and will ultimately cost them more than legally disposing of the waste, said Michael J. Sullivan, U.S. Attorney for the District of Massachusetts.  The Coast Guard remains committed to working with the maritime industry and federal, state and local law enforcement partners to protect United States environmental resources from those who choose to intentionally or negligently pollute our waters, said Rear Admiral Dale G. Gabel, Commander of the First Coast Guard District in Boston, Mass. When violations of federal laws are uncovered in the maritime realm, the Coast Guard stands ready and able to investigate these matters thoroughly. We will continue to work with our partners to ensure all violators are prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.  Douglas P. Woodlock, U.S. District Judge for the District of Massachusetts,scheduled sentencing for April 13, 2009. Oria faces up to 6 years imprisonment, to be followed by three years of supervised release, and a $250,000 fine.  The case was investigated by the U.S. Coast Guard, Coast Guard Investigative Service. It was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Linda M. Ricci of Sullivans Economic Crimes Unit, Special Assistant U.S. Attorney Christopher Jones of the U.S. Coast Guard First District Legal Office, and Trial Attorney Todd Mikolop of the Justice Departments Environmental Crimes Section. 