The U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Alabama entered a consent decree of permanent injunction against BEK Catering LLC dba Floppers Foods LLC of Daphne, Alabama, and its co-owners, Billy B. Stembridge and Kyle D. Huxen, to prevent the distribution of adulterated and misbranded seafood products, the Department of Justice announced today.The Department filed a complaint in the Southern District of Alabama on July 1, at the request of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). According to the complaint, BEK Catering prepares, processes, packs, holds, and distributes ready-to-eat seafood products, namely seafood soups sold under the names Shrimp Locksley and Mamas Gumbo. The complaint alleged that the defendants caused food to become adulterated and misbranded.Adulterated and misbranded seafood products can create serious health risks for consumers, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer, head of the Justice Departments Civil Division. The Department of Justice will continue to work aggressively with the FDA to ensure a safe food supply.In conjunction with the filing of the complaint, the defendants agreed to settle the litigation and be bound by a consent decree of permanent injunction. As part of the settlement, the defendants represented that they are no longer engaged in the processing, packing, or holding of fish and fishery products from any location except for activities incidental to product transport and delivery. Under the permanent injunction, if the defendants intend to resume processing, packing, or holding fish or fishery products at or from any location, beyond activities incidental to transporting and delivering product, they must notify FDA in writing 90 days in advance, comply with specific remedial measures set forth in the injunction, and be subject to FDA inspection.According to the complaint, Stembridge is a co-owner of BEK Catering and refers to himself as the firms Managing Partner. As alleged in the complaint, Stembridge has ultimate authority over all of the firms operations, including major financial expenditures, production processes, product distribution, and employee supervision. The complaint further alleged that Huxen is a co-owner of BEK Catering, responsible for BEK Caterings compliance with FDAs seafood processing regulations and training new employees, and shares responsibility with Stembridge for the firms operations.NoneNoneNoneNoneAs noted in the complaint, FDA has conducted five inspections of BEK Caterings various manufacturing facilities dating back to 2011, and during each inspection, FDA found similar types of insanitary conditions and repeated violations of seafood Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point regulations and current Good Manufacturing Practice regulations.The government is represented by Counsel Melanie Singh of the Civil Divisions Consumer Protection Branch with the assistance of Senior Chief Counsel Claudia Zuckerman of the Food and Drug Division, Office of General Counsel, Department of Health and Human Services.None