WASHINGTON  The Justice Department announced today its participation in two related settlement agreements involving the accessibility of the Law School Admission Councils (LSAC) online application service, which is used by law schools nationwide for their application processes. As a result of these agreements, LSACs online application service, and the online application process of the nation's law schools, will be accessible to individuals who are blind. None The second agreement is between the department and Atlantas John Marshall Law School. It requires the law school to modify its own website to notify potential applicants of a process they may use to apply to the law school until the LSAC electronic application process has been made fully accessible. Specifically, the notice will state that LSAC currently provides telephone assistance free of charge to individuals completing applications. The law school will also post current policies of non-discrimination on the basis of disability on its application website. Finally, the law school will cease using the LSAC electronic application process for the fall 2012 application cycle if the LSAC website is not fully accessible under the terms reached in the agreement involving the National Federation of the Blind (NFB), LSAC and the department. The agreement is the result of an investigation following a complaint from the NFB about the schools use of the LSAC website. The department is working with other law schools to reach similar agreements. Increased use of the Internet or other electronic technologies may enhance convenience for law schools and applicants alike, but the rights of individuals with disabilities may not be violated in the process, said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division. In this case, blind students were denied an equal opportunity to apply to law school. The ADA requires equal access to educational opportunities, and the Civil Rights Division is committed to vigorous enforcement of the ADA. None