The Justice Department announced today that it has filed a Fair Housing Act lawsuit against the owners and manager of approximately two dozen rental homes in Washington, N,C., alleging that the manager, William I. Cochran III, discriminated against African-American tenants. The complaint, filed in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina, names Cochran and three related corporate entities  EKP LLC, WRC LLC and Emlan Properties LLC  that own or owned the various properties managed by Cochran. The complaint alleges that Cochran delayed or refused to perform maintenance or repairs at properties rented by African-Americans and refused to credit them for repairs they paid for or made themselves; verbally harassed African-American tenants with racial slurs and epithets, having made statements indicating that he disfavored African-American tenants; and threatened, harassed and retaliated against African-American tenants who resisted his discriminatory housing practices. No American should be subjected to substandard housing conditions because of his or her race, said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division. The Justice Department will continue its vigorous enforcement of fair housing laws that protect the rights of individuals who seek basic maintenance and repairs to be free from discrimination, harassment, or retaliation. Racial discrimination will not be tolerated in North Carolina, said Thomas G. Walker, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District in North Carolina. When we have evidence demonstrating that federal law has been broken, we will take action against the violators. The case began when a former tenant at one of Cochrans properties contacted the Justice Department to report Cochrans conduct. The department conducted an extensive investigation and then filed todays lawsuit, which seeks an order prohibiting the defendants from engaging in future unlawful discrimination, and requiring the defendants to pay monetary damages to victims of their discrimination and civil penalties to the government. NoneComplaint