      WASHINGTON  The United States is seeking to bar three men from promoting alleged tax shelter schemes involving sham cemetery investments, the Justice Department announced today.  The government has filed a civil injunction lawsuit in federal court in Washington, D.C., against Michael A. Strauss of Herndon, Va.; his son, Patrick B. Strauss, of Washington, D.C.; and Joseph C. Barreiro of Poughkeepsie, N.Y.      According to the government complaint, the Strausses and Barreiro promoted illegal tax schemes to customers located in Northern Virginia, Maryland and Washington, D.C.  Through these scams, they allegedly received millions of dollars from their customers and concocted approximately $35 million in fake partnership losses and phony charitable contribution deductions, which they falsely told their customers could be used to offset their federal income taxes.  The complaint alleges that the three men falsely promised their customers $5 of tax benefits for every $1 that they invested.  The defendants allegedly sold the schemes through shell entities, which they controlled, called Burial Specialists LLC, Memorial Specialists LLC and Dignified Charitable Burials.       The complaint states that the men falsely told their customers that Burial Specialists had bought a license worth more than $90 million from a company called Southern Dorchester LLC using a $90 million promissory note.  The license purportedly gave Burial Specialists the right to future profits from performing funeral services at a purported cemetery in Spotsylvania County, Va.  According to the complaint, the defendants also falsely claimed that Burial Specialists could annually deduct a portion of the licenses supposed value and then pass on millions of dollars in losses to the customers.  The government contends that there was no arms-length sale by Southern Dorchester and that Michael Strauss and Barreiro fabricated the $90 million license value, along with the accompanying $90 million promissory note, to generate fake tax benefits. The defendants also allegedly used the fictitious promissory note to siphon off, for their personal benefit, funds that they told their customers were being invested.       According to the complaint, the defendants undertook a virtually identical scheme using Memorial Specialists and a supposed cemetery in Lloyd, N.Y., as well as a third scheme using Dignified Charitable Burials that generated bogus charitable contribution deductions. None