  A northern California man who  served as an information and document vendor in the identity theft and credit  card fraud ring known as Carder.su was sentenced yesterday to serve 100 months  in federal prison.   He was further  ordered to pay approximately $50.5 million in restitution.   Assistant Attorney General Leslie  R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Daniel  G. Bogden of the District of Nevada and Assistant Special Agent in Charge  Michael Harris of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security  Investigations (ICE HSI) in Las Vegas made the announcement.   U.S. District Judge Andrew P. Gordon of the  District of Nevada imposed the sentence.   Carder.su is a criminal  organization, and we used the same mob-busting laws and investigative techniques  weve used with other organized crime networks to dismantle the fraud ring,  said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell.    The new face of organized crime is largely cyber-based, and this case  demonstrates the departments ability to pursue members of these organizations  wherever we find them.   The structure of the Carder.su  organization was sophisticated and designed to prevent attack by rival  organizations and to avoid detection by law enforcement, said U.S. Attorney  Bogden.   Its members had defined roles  and were responsible for the theft of over $50 million.   We are working diligently with our law  enforcement partners to ensure that the people who commit these high-tech crimes  are put out of business.   As this multi-year sentence  makes clear, individuals like this defendant who traffic in stolen identities  and compromised credit card information should expect to face the full weight of  the law, said HSI Assistant Special Agent in Charge Harris. This type of fraud  has reached epidemic proportions and the economic fallout from these crimes  affects us all.   HSI will continue to  work closely with its law enforcement partners to see that those involved are  brought to justice.   Makyl Haggerty, aka Wave and  G5, 24, of Oakland, Calif., admitted in his plea agreement that in December  2009, he became associated with the Carder.su organization, a criminal  enterprise whose members trafficked in compromised credit card account data and  counterfeit identifications, and committed money laundering, narcotics  trafficking, and various types of computer crime.   Specifically, Haggerty operated as a vendor  on the organizations websites using the Wave and G5 nicknames, and sold  approximately 1,000 counterfeit identification documents and counterfeit credit  cards to other Carder.su members.    Haggerty manufactured and sold counterfeit drivers licenses for at least  15 states and British Columbia.   Fifty-six individuals were  charged in four separate indictments in Operation Open Market, which targeted  the Carder.su organization.   To date, 25  individuals have been convicted and the rest are either fugitives or are pending  trial.   Haggerty pleaded guilty in  February to one count of participation in a racketeer influenced corrupt  organization.   The cases were investigated by  HSI and the U.S. Secret Service, and are being prosecuted by Trial Attorney  Jonathan Ophardt of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section and  Assistant U.S. Attorneys Kimberly M. Frayn and Andrew W. Duncan of the District  of Nevada.  None