A Michigan man pleaded guilty to fraud charges for his role in a scheme to defraud Medicare out of approximately $6.3 million while he acted as an unlicensed physician at a Detroit in-home physician services company.Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Barbara L. McQuade of the Eastern District of Michigan, Special Agent in Charge David P. Gelios of the FBIs Detroit Division and Special Agent in Charge Lamont Pugh III of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector Generals (HHS-OIG) Chicago Regional Office made the announcement.Renald Dasine, 54, of Ypsilanti, Michigan, pleaded guilty yesterday to one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud before U.S. District Judge John Corbett OMeara of the Eastern District of Michigan. Sentencing has been scheduled for March 8, 2017.As part of his guilty plea, Dasine admitted that in connection with his employment at B&M Visiting Doctors PLC, he submitted fraudulent claims to Medicare as part of a fraud scheme that took place from 2005 to 2013. Dasine saw patients and falsified related patient records, including medical documents, prescriptions for controlled substances and billing documents, all under the name of a licensed medical doctor.Cecil Alexander Kent, Charles McRae and Alvin Williams, all unlicensed physicians, previously pleaded guilty for their involvement in the B&M Visiting Doctors PLC scheme.The FBIs Detroit Division and HHS-OIG investigated this case, which was brought as part of the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, under the supervision of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of Michigan. Fraud Section Trial Attorneys Melissa Aoyagi and Kyle Maurer prosecuted the case.The Fraud Section leads the Medicare Fraud Strike Force. Since its inception in March 2007, the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, now operating in nine cities across the country, has charged nearly 3,000 defendants who have collectively billed the Medicare program for more than $11 billion. In addition, the HHS Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, working in conjunction with the HHS-OIG, are taking steps to increase accountability and decrease the presence of fraudulent providers.