A Kenyan child pornography producer was sentenced late yesterdayto life in prison for participating in the Dreamboard child sexual exploitation website, announced Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney Stephanie A. Finley of the Western District of Louisiana.Brian Musomba Maweu, 52, who was extradited from Kenya to the United States in September 2014, pleaded guilty in April 2015 before U.S. District Judge S. Maurice Hicks Jr. of the Western District of Louisiana to one count of engaging in a child exploitation enterprise. In addition to serving the prison term, Maweu will be required to register as a sex offender.In connection with his guilty plea, Maweu admitted that, using the online alias Catfish, he posted 121 messages on the Dreamboard website  a private, members-only online bulletin board that promoted pedophilia and encouraged the sexual abuse and exploitation of very young children in an environment designed to avoid detection by law enforcement  including 34 posts containing child pornography that he produced. Maweu was considered a Super VIP member of Dreamboard, a designation that was given to members who were prominent on the site and produced their own child pornography.The prosecution of Maweu was the result of Operation Delego, an investigation launched in December 2009 that targeted individuals around the world for their participation in Dreamboard. A total of 72 individuals, including Maweu, were charged as a result of Operation Delego. To date, 57 of those defendants have been arrested either in the United States or abroad, and 49 have either pleaded guilty or been convicted after trial. Sentences have ranged between five years to life in prison.The investigation was conducted by Immigration and Customs Enforcement-Homeland Security Investigations (ICE-HSI), the Child Exploitation Section of ICEs Cyber Crime Center, the Criminal Divisions Child Exploitation and Obscenity Section (CEOS), CEOS High Technology Investigative Unit, and 35 ICE offices in the United States and 11 ICE attaches offices in 13 countries around the world, with assistance provided by numerous local and international law enforcement agencies across the United States and throughout the world.The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Keith Becker of CEOS and Assistant U.S. Attorneys John Luke Walker and Michael OMara of the Western District of Louisiana. The Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs provided substantial assistance.NoneNone