A federal court in the Northern District of California entered an order today authorizing the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to serve a John Doe summons on Coinbase Inc., seeking information about U.S. taxpayers who conducted transactions in a convertible virtual currency during the years 2013 to 2015. The IRS is seeking the records of Americans who engaged in business with or through Coinbase, a virtual currency exchanger headquartered in San Francisco, California.As the use of virtual currencies has grown exponentially, some have raised questions about tax compliance, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Caroline D. Ciraolo, head of the Justice Departments Tax Division. Tools like the John Doe summons authorized today send the clear message to U.S. taxpayers that whatever form of currency they use  bitcoin or traditional dollars and cents  we will work to ensure that they are fully reporting their income and paying their fair share of taxes.Transactions in virtual currency are taxable just like those in any other property, said IRS Commissioner John Koskinen. The John Doe summons is a step designed to help the IRS ensure people doing business in the emerging economy are following the tax laws and meeting their responsibilities.Virtual currency, as generally defined, is a digital representation of value that functions in the same manner as a countrys traditional currency. There are nearly a thousand virtual currencies, but the most widely known and largest is bitcoin. Because transactions in virtual currencies can be difficult to trace and have an inherently pseudo-anonymous aspect, taxpayers may be using them to hide taxable income from the IRS. In the courts order, U.S. Magistrate Judge Jacqueline Scott Corley found that there is a reasonable basis for believing that virtual currency users may have failed to comply with federal tax laws.NoneThe courts order grants the IRS permission to serve what is known as a John Doe summons on Coinbase. There is no allegation in this suit that Coinbase has engaged in any wrongdoing in connection with its virtual currency exchange business. Rather, the IRS uses John Doe summonses to obtain information about possible violations of internal revenue laws by individuals whose identities are unknown. This John Doe summons directs Coinbase to produce records identifying U.S. taxpayers who have used its services, along with other documents relating to their virtual currency transactions.None