NoneCowart, 21, of Bells, Tenn., admitted to conspiring with Paul Schlesselman of West Helena, Ark., to engage in a killing spree specifically targeting African-Americans. He further acknowledged that he intended to culminate these attacks by assassinating President Obama, a U.S. Senator and a presidential candidate at the time of the planned attacks.Cowart also admitted to shooting the window of the Allen Baptist Church in Brownsville, Tenn. Under the plea agreement, Cowart faces a sentence of at least 10 years and could face up to 75 years in prison."Despite great civil rights progress, this unthinkable conspiracy serves as a reminder that hate-fueled violence remains all too common in our country," said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division. "Tragedy was averted thanks to the capable work of the Crockett County Sheriffs Department and their willingness to work with the ATF, the Secret Service and the FBI.""Crimes committed against individuals because of their race will not be tolerated," said Lawrence J. Laurenzi, U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Tennessee. "I commend the work of the investigative agencies in thwarting what could have been a series of tragic events."Cowart pleaded guilty to threatening to kill and inflict bodily harm upon a major candidate for the office of President of the United States, conspiracy, interstate transportation of a short-barreled shotgun, interstate transportation of a firearm for the purpose of committing a felony, unlicensed transportation of an unauthorized short-barreled shotgun, possession of a short-barreled shotgun, intentional damage to religious real property, and discharge of a firearm during and in relation to a crime of violence.Schlesselman pleaded guilty on Jan. 14, 2010, to one count of conspiracy, one count of threatening to kill and inflict bodily harm upon a presidential candidate, and one count of possessing a firearm in furtherance of a crime of violence. Schlesselman is scheduled to be sentenced on April 15, 2010, and faces 10 years in prison under the plea agreement.The case was investigated by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; the U.S. Secret Service; the FBI; and the Crockett County, Tenn., Sheriffs Office. The case is being prosecuted by U.S. Attorney Larry Laurenzi, Assistant U.S. Attorney James Powell and Civil Rights Division Trial Attorney Jonathan Skrmetti.