  WASHINGTON  The United States has sued two Southern California attorneys and a Kentucky financial professional to bar them from promoting an allegedly abusive tax shelter known as an intermediary transaction, the Justice Department announced today.   The lawsuit was filed in federal court in Camden, N.J., against Charles Klink of Fontana, Calif., Caleb Grodsky of Los Angeles and Steven Block of Louisville, Ky.   According to the governments civil injunction complaint, Klink is a former partner in the Los Angeles office of the law firm Manatt, Phelps & Phillips LLP, while Block has worked in the financial services industry for over two decades. The complaint asserts that Klink, Grodsky and Block have made millions of dollars helping individuals across the country sell corporate assets without paying federal corporate income taxes on the resulting capital gain income.   Stopping the marketing and use of abusive tax shelters remains one of our top priorities for 2011, said John A. DiCicco, Acting Assistant Attorney General of the Justice Departments Tax Division.   White-collar professionals who promote these schemes face the prospect of significant legal sanctions.   The IRS and the Justice Department are working diligently to ensure that people who buy into these sophisticated tax dodges ultimately have to pay the taxes they owe, along with interest and appropriate penalties.   Klink, Grodsky and Block purportedly use an intricate web of trusts and corporations to act as intermediaries between their customers, who own closely held corporations, and buyers who want to buy the customers corporate assets.   Examples of such assets discussed in the complaint include a $205 million, twelve-story office building in Washington, D.C.; a $3.5 million vineyard in St. Helena, Calif.; and a $22.2 million, six-building office campus in Laguna Hills, Calif.   According to the complaint, the defendants purchase all of the stock in a customers corporation shortly before or after the asset sale.   The government alleges that they then falsely tell the customer that, following the defendants purchase of the corporation, the defendants will restructure the corporation into a profitable new business and have it pay federal income taxes on the capital gain from the asset sale.   However, the complaint alleges, Klink, Grodsky and Block never intend to pay the corporate income taxes on those capital gains. Rather, within days of taking control of the corporation, and following the sale of all its assets, the defendants allegedly implement what is known as a distressed asset trust (DAT) tax shelter and claim deductions for sham fees to offset most or all of the capital gains. The defendants also allegedly take steps to siphon off the corporations assets, leaving it with no funds to pay any taxes due once the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) learns of the scheme and assesses taxes. None   The complaint against Klink, Grodsky and Block alleges that they have caused the corporations they acquired to deduct improperly over $112 million of distressed consumer receivables.   The government estimates that the tax loss resulting from their promotion of the tax schemes at issue in this case exceeds $40 million. The complaint also asks the court to require them to produce any records identifying any persons who have participated in any tax scheme they promoted. None  