  Diagnostic Imaging Group (DIG) has agreed to pay a total of $15.5 million to resolve allegations that its diagnostic testing facility falsely billed federal and state health care programs for tests that were not performed or not medically necessary and by paying kickbacks to physicians. Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Civil Division Stuart F. Delery, U.S. Attorney for the District of New Jersey Paul J. Fishman and U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of New York Loretta E. Lynch announced the settlement today.  DIG has agreed to pay $13.65 million to the federal government and an additional total of $1.85 million to New York and New Jersey. DIG operates a chain of diagnostic testing facilities through its subsidiary, Doshi Diagnostic Imaging Services, which is headquartered in Hicksville, N.Y. DIG previously operated chains in New Jersey and Florida through subsidiaries Doshi Diagnostic Imaging Services of New Jersey and Signet Diagnostic Imaging Services.  When health care providers pay kickbacks and submit false claims to Medicare, they not only deplete the Medicare Trust Fund, they undermine the integrity of the health care system, said Assistant Attorney General Delery. The Justice Department will relentlessly pursue those who misuse federal health care funds for their own profit.  Health care providers who make decisions based on profit instead of medical need compromise patient safety and confidence, said U.S. Attorney Fishman. Unnecessary tests and the payment of kickbacks also siphon precious resources from our health care system. The settlement were announcing today is an appropriate response to these unacceptable practices.  The settlement announced today resolves allegations that DIG submitted claims to Medicare, as well as the New Jersey and New York Medicaid Programs, for 3D reconstructions of CT scans that were never performed or interpreted. Additionally, DIG allegedly bundled certain tests on its order forms so that physicians could not order other tests without ordering the additional bundled tests, which were not medically necessary. Todays settlement also resolves allegations that DIG paid kickbacks to physicians for the referral of diagnostic tests. According to the government, the kickbacks were in the form of payments that DIG made to physicians ostensibly to supervise patients who underwent nuclear stress testing. These payments allegedly exceeded fair market value and were, in fact, intended to reward physicians for their referrals.  Patients deserve testing decisions based solely on medical need, not doctors pocketbooks, said U.S. Attorney Lynch. We will continue to work with our federal and state law enforcement partners to investigate vigorously allegations of fraud on federal programs like Medicare and to pursue those who seek to fraudulently deplete the Medicare Trust Fund.   Paying physicians for their referrals and submitting false claims to increase Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements  as was alleged in this case  simply cannot be tolerated, said Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Daniel R. Levinson. Besides levying a hefty penalty, the settlement requires an independent organization to review Diagnostic Imaging Groups claims for five years and to send reports to the government.None  This settlement illustrates the governments emphasis on combating health care fraud and marks another achievement for the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT) initiative, which was announced in May 2009 by Attorney General Eric Holder and Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius. The partnership between the two departments has focused efforts to reduce and prevent Medicare and Medicaid financial fraud through enhanced cooperation. One of the most powerful tools in this effort is the False Claims Act. Since January 2009, the Justice Department has recovered a total of more than $19 billion through False Claims Act cases, with more than $13.4 billion of that amount recovered in cases involving fraud against federal health care programs.   This case was handled by the Civil Division of the Department of Justice, the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of New Jersey and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of New York. The settlement is the culmination of an investigation conducted jointly by special agents of the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General and the FBI with contributions from the Railroad Retirement Board. None