  WASHINGTON - Visiting Physicians Association, which is based in Farmington Hills, Mich., will pay the United States and the state of Michigan $9.5 million to settle allegations that the association violated the False Claims Act by submitting false claims to Medicare, TRICARE and the Michigan Medicaid program, the Justice Department announced today. Visiting Physicians Association   is a Michigan professional corporation which has provided home health services at various times in Michigan, Ohio, Georgia and Wisconsin.   The agreement announced today settles allegations that Visiting Physicians Association submitted claims to the Medicare, TRICARE and Michigan Medicaid for unnecessary home visits and care plan oversight services, for unnecessary tests and procedures, and for more complex evaluation and management services than the services that Visiting Physicians Association actually provided.  "This settlement illustrates the governments commitment to pursuing those who defraud Medicare and other important programs and drive up the costs of health care," said Tony West, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Division of the Department of Justice. "The Justice Department will continue to work with our federal and state partners to ensure that taxpayer dollars are spent on health care services for patients, not wasted on fraud and abuse."None  "My office is committed to ensuring that healthcare providers are reimbursed only for legitimate services provided to qualified beneficiaries. We will use all tools available to us, including civil enforcement remedies, to maintain the integrity of government programs,"said Terrence Berg, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Michigan.None  The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General; the FBI; and the Michigan Attorney Generals Office investigated this matter. The Justice Departments Civil Division, the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of Ohio, the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of Michigan, and the Michigan Attorney Generals Office handled the lawsuits.