Under the terms of a consent decree filed by the Justice Department today, Greyhound Lines Inc., the nations largest provider of intercity bus transportation, will implement a series of systemic reforms to resolve allegations that it repeatedly violated the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). Greyhound will pay $300,000 in compensation to certain passengers with disabilities identified by the department and will retain a claims administrator to compensate an uncapped number of additional passengers who have experienced disability discrimination.The consent decree, pending approval by the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware, resolves the departments complaint that Greyhound engaged in a nationwide pattern or practice of violating the ADA by failing to provide full and equal transportation services to passengers with disabilities. The alleged violations include failing to maintain accessibility features on its bus fleet such as lifts and securement devices, failing to provide passengers with disabilities assistance boarding and exiting buses at rest stops; and failing to allow customers traveling in wheelchairs to complete their reservations online.The ADA guarantees people with disabilities equal access to transportation services so that they can travel freely and enjoy autonomy, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta, head of the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division. Todays agreement marks a major step toward fulfilling the promise of the ADA, and we applaud Greyhound for entering the consent decree.We are fully committed to ensuring equal access to all opportunities society has to offer, including transportation services, said U.S. Attorney Charles M. Oberly III of the District of Delaware.Under the terms of the agreement, Greyhound  which serves more than 3,800 destinations and more than 18 million passengers each year across North America  will compensate several classes of passengers who faced barriers because of their disabilities. Through a claims administrator, Greyhound will compensate individuals who experienced barriers based on disability during the three years prior to todays filing. There is no cap on the number of individuals who may submit claims or on the total amount to be disbursed by Greyhound through this process. In addition, Greyhound will be required to pay a total of $300,000 among specific individuals identified by the department who experienced ADA violations. Greyhound will also pay a civil penalty to the United States in the amount of $75,000.In addition, the agreement mandates that Greyhound implement a series of systemic reforms, including the following:NoneNoneGreyhound Consent Decree