A Brooklyn man was sentenced yesterday in Honolulu for his involvement in a counterfeit DVD movie ring, announced Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney Florence T. Nakakuni of the District of Hawaii.Yakov Meir Chazanow, 41, was sentenced yesterday by U.S. District Judge Leslie E. Kobayashi of the District of Hawaii to serve 21 months in prison for conspiring to commit criminal copyright infringement, manufacturing counterfeit goods and to traffic in goods bearing counterfeit Dolby trademarks and counterfeit labels.According to the evidence set forth in the record and at sentencing, from 2004 to 2011, Chazanow supplied over 30,000 high-quality pirated DVDs containing infringing copies of copyright-protected Asian action movies and corresponding counterfeit labels and packaging. He then distributed them to co-conspirators, who in turn sold them to consumers in stores and online.Chazanow, Sharon Josef and Jeffrey Alan Stockton were all charged in June 2013, and Stockton pleaded guilty to the charged conspiracy and two counts of trafficking in counterfeit labels on Sept. 19, 2013. On Feb. 3, 2014, Chazanow pleaded guilty to the above charges, and Josef pleaded guilty to misdemeanor copyright infringement. On May 12, 2014, the court sentenced Stockton to 21 months in prison, ordered him to pay restitution of $150, and entered a preliminary order directing Stockton to forfeit $250,000 in illegal proceeds, $32,154 in U.S. currency, a 2003 Toyota Tundra, 29 gold bars, 62 gold coins, six palladium coins and five silver coins. Josef, who supplied pirated DVDs from 2011 to 2012, was sentenced yesterday to serve four months in prison.The case was investigated by Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations. Assistance was provided by the Motion Picture Association of America, Dolby Laboratories, Inc. and DVD Format/Logo Licensing Corporation. The case was prosecuted by Assistant Deputy Chief for Litigation John H. Zacharia of the Criminal Divisions Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Andrea W. Hattan and Leslie E. Osborne, Jr. of the District of Hawaii.