  Deundra Milhouse and Fredrick  Hill, both residents of Alabama, were sentenced today in separate stolen  identity refund fraud (SIRF) cases, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General  Tamara Ashford of the Justice Departments Tax Division and U.S. Attorney George  L. Beck Jr. for the Middle District of Alabama.  Milhouse was sentenced to serve  81 months in prison and Hill was sentenced to serve 74 months in prison. None   Milhouse previously pleaded  guilty to one count of access device fraud, one count of aggravated identity  theft and one count of being a felon in possession of a firearm.  He was  indicted in December 2013 and has been detained since his arrest in late  January.  According to his plea agreement, Milhouse was involved in SIRF  crimesusing stolen identities to steal money from the Internal Revenue Service  (IRS) by filing fraudulent tax returns claiming refunds in the victims  namesfrom spring 2011 through late 2013.  In 2011 and 2012, Milhouse received  more than $80,000 in fraudulently obtained tax refunds into a bank account he  controlled.  By 2013, he switched to using prepaid debit cards to receive the  refunds.   Milhouse admitted in his plea  agreement that he was driving a car that was stopped on Oct. 8, 2013, in Elmore  County, Alabama.  He managed to flee on foot and threw away a handgun that he  had been carrying.  At that time, Milhouse was a convicted felon prohibited from  having a firearm.  Numerous prepaid debit cards and documents with personal  identifying information were found in the car he was driving.  Milhouse also  admitted that a later search of his house uncovered many more documents with the  personal identifying information of victims, as well as more than 200 prepaid  debit cards, a computer used to file tax returns and a magazine and ammunition  for the discarded handgun.  As part of his plea, Milhouse stipulated that his  conduct involved an attempted fraud loss of more than $400,000 to more than 250  victims and that he had a least one felony conviction for a crime of violence  prior to his possession of the handgun. None   Hill previously pleaded guilty to  access device fraud and aggravated identity theft.  According to his plea  agreement, Hill sold stolen identities to others to be used in SIRF crimes.   Hill admitted that at one point he possessed dozens of prepaid debit cards and  more than 300 stolen identities in connection with his involvement in SIRF  crime.   Both cases were investigated by  special agents of IRS - Criminal Investigation.  The Elmore County Sheriffs  Office also provided assistance in the Milhouse case.  Trial Attorneys Jason  Poole and Michael Boteler of the department's Tax Division prosecuted the  Milhouse case and Trial Attorneys Jason Poole and Gregory Bailey prosecuted the  Hill case.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Todd Brown and the U.S. Attorneys Office  for the Middle District of Alabama assisted with both cases. None