    Attorney General Eric Holder today announced $58 million in Second Chance Act grant funding to reduce recidivism, provide reentry services, conduct research and evaluate the impact of reentry programs.Attorney General Holder also highlighted the departments efforts to support research and evidence-based practices and its work with state departments of correction to set recidivism reduction goals  .     Thanks to the collaborative efforts of law enforcement leaders, community-based organizations, and departments of corrections  as well as a variety of groundbreaking projects that have been funded through Second Chance Act grant awards  a number of states have shown significant reductions in the three-year recidivism rate, said Attorney General Holder.     The Second Chance Act (SCA)programs, administered through the departments Office of Justice Programs, are designed to help communities develop andimplementcomprehensive strategies to address the challengesfaced by incarcerated adults and youth when they return to their communities following release from confinement.  None     Of the $58.5 million (98 awards) announced, more than $47 million (94 awards) are for family-based substance abuse treatment; treatment of returning prisoners with co-occurring substance abuse and mental health disorders; adult and juvenile reentry demonstration projects; state, local, and tribal reentry courts; adult mentoring programs; and technology career training projects for incarcerated adults and juveniles.  The remaining $10.5 million support evaluation, training and technical assistance for grantees and the reentry field at large.     OJPs Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA) awards   support jurisdictions which propose to plan or implement aPay for Success model into their reentry initiative. Pay for Success represents a new way to achieve positive outcomes for the criminal justice population with external financing and at a lower risk and cost to governments.BJA is making two Pay for Success awards: an implementation award to Cuyahoga County, Ohio, and a planning award to Lowell, Mass., and is funding the Urban Institutes efforts to develop a blueprint for municipal, state and federal governments to use to pay for evidence-based anti-crime programs.  BJA is also funding three   new programs this year:  NoneNone     Second Chance Act funding enables states, localities and tribes to identify, target and serve moderate and high risk individuals reentering communities. said BJA Director Denise E. ODonnell. The reentry process begins when an individual enters incarceration and ends upon successful reintegration in the community. Using these evidence based interventions results in safer and healthier communities.       OJPs Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention announced nearly $1.8 million to support four new juvenile reentry demonstration projects and more than $3.4 million to continue to fund six existing juvenile reentry programs across the country.   With approximately 100,000 youth released from confinement each year, these programs aim to promote public safety by helping youth successfully transition from juvenile residential facilities to their communities.       OJPs   National Institute of Justice (NIJ) will fund evaluations of the SCA Adult Offender Reentry Demonstration projects and the SCA Juvenile Reentry Demonstration Projects.   In addition, NIJ will seek to expand knowledge about reentry and recidivism through a number of research projects, including the following: NoneNoneNoneNoneNone     Through a cooperative agreement to the Council of State Governments Justice Center OJP operates the National Reentry Resource Center (NRRC).  The NRRC offers training and technical assistance for Second Chance Act grantees, provides distance learning and other reentry resources to the field, and administers the What Works in Reentry Clearinghouse. NRRC collaborates with other federal agencies focused on reentry activities and with the Attorney Generals Federal Interagency Reentry Council and its staff working group. None NoneNoneNone