  WASHINGTONThe operator of an ocean-going chemical tanker ship was sentenced today in federal court to pay a fine of more than $2 million for polluting the high seas, the Justice Department announced.None  The company pleaded guilty on April 6, 2009, to conspiracy, falsification of records, obstruction, and two violations of the Act to Prevent Pollution from Ships for failing to maintain an accurate oil record book. The practice of improperly handling and disposing of oil-contaminated waste from the tanker took place from at least June 2007 until March 2008. Along with the $2.08 million fine, the court ordered the company to implement comprehensive environmental compliance plan to prevent future violations.NoneNoneNoneNone None  "Todays criminal fine is another warning to corporate entities and crewmembers that deliberately bypassing required environmental controls and pumping untreated bilge water directly into the ocean is illegal and violators will be punished," said John C. Cruden, Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division. "As long as individuals and maritime companies ignore this nations environmental laws, the Justice Department will continue to bring cases and seek justice for those involved."  "Todays sentence should send a strong message to anyone in the maritime community who might consider circumventing our nations anti-pollution laws. Violating our nations environmental laws can actually cost more than legally disposing of the waste," said Acting U.S. Attorney Michael K. Loucks, for the District of Massachusetts.  "The Coast Guard remains committed to working with the maritime industry and federal, state and local law enforcement partners to protect the environmental resources of our nation," said Rear Admiral Joseph Nimmich, Commander of the First Coast Guard District in Boston. "Holding violators of the law responsible is critical to our enforcement effort. This case is a victory for the country and the environment."  The case was investigated by the U.S. Coast Guard, Coast Guard Investigative Service. It was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Linda M. Ricci of the U.S. Attorneys Economic Crimes Unit, Trial Attorney Todd Mikolop of the Justice Departments Environmental Crimes Section, and Special Assistant U.S. Attorney Christopher Jones of the U.S. Coast Guard First District Legal Office.