The Department of Justice obtained more than $3.7 billion in settlements and judgments from civil cases involving fraud and false claims against the government in the fiscal year ending Sept. 30, 2017, Acting Assistant Attorney General Chad A. Readler of the Justice Departments Civil Division announced today. Recoveries since 1986, when Congress substantially strengthened the civil False Claims Act, now total more than $56 billion. Every day, dedicated attorneys, investigators, analysts, and support staff at every level of the Justice Department are working to root out fraud and hold accountable those who violate the law and exploit critical government programs, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Chad A. Readler of the Justice Departments Civil Division. The recoveries announced today are a testament to the efforts of these valuable public servants and a message to those who do business with the government that fraud and dishonesty will not be tolerated. Of the $3.7 billion in settlements and judgments, $2.4 billion involved the health care industry, including drug companies, hospitals, pharmacies, laboratories, and physicians. This is the eighth consecutive year that the departments civil health care fraud settlements and judgments have exceeded $2 billion. The recoveries included in the $2.4 billion reflect only federal losses. In many of these cases, the department was instrumental in recovering additional millions of dollars for state Medicaid programs.  In addition to combatting health care fraud, the False Claims Act serves as the governments primary civil remedy to redress false claims for government funds and property under government programs and contracts relating to such varied areas as defense and national security, food safety and inspection, federally insured loans and mortgages, highway funds, small business contracts, agricultural subsidies, disaster assistance, and import tariffs.  Health Care Fraud  The department investigates and resolves matters involving a wide array of health care providers, goods and services. The departments health care fraud recoveries restore valuable assets to federally funded programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid, and TRICARE. But just as important, the departments vigorous pursuit of health care fraud prevents billions more in losses by deterring others who might otherwise try to cheat the system for their own gain. None None None None While we encourage voluntary reporting of suspected federal violations through self-disclosures, compliance guidance, and corporate integrity agreements, the False Claims Act holds accountable those health care organizations unwilling to comply with law, said Daniel R. Levinson, Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Large health care recoveries benefit vulnerable Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries as well as the taxpayers who support these programs. Housing and Mortgage Fraud None None Procurement Fraud None None None Other Fraud Recoveries The number and variety of judgments and settlements announced during fiscal year 2017 illustrate the diversity of cases pursued by the department to root out fraud and false claims against the government wherever they may be found. None None None Individual Accountability The department continued to ensure individual accountability for corporate wrongdoing by pursuing False Claims Act and other civil remedies to redress fraud by individuals as well as corporations.  None None Recoveries in Whistleblower Suits Of the $3.7 billion in settlements and judgments reported by the government in fiscal year 2017, $3.4 billion related to lawsuits filed under the qui tam provisions of the False Claims Act. During the same period, the government paid out $392 million to the individuals who exposed fraud and false claims by filing a qui tam complaint.  The number of lawsuits filed under the qui tam provisions of the Act has grown significantly since 1986, with 669 qui tam suits filed this past year  an average of more than 12 new cases every week. Because those who defraud the government often hide their misconduct from public view, whistleblowers are often essential to uncovering the truth, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Chad A. Readler of the Justice Departments Civil Division. The Departments recoveries this past year continue to reflect the valuable role that private parties can play in the governments effort to combat false claims concerning government contracts and programs.  In 1986, Senator Charles Grassley and Representative Howard Berman led the successful efforts in Congress to amend the False Claims Act to, among other things, encourage whistleblowers to come forward with allegations of fraud. And in 2009, Senator Patrick J. Leahy, along with Senator Grassley and Representative Berman, championed the Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act of 2009, which further strengthened the False Claims Act and its whistleblower provisions.  Mr. Readler also expressed his deep appreciation for the many dedicated public servants who investigated and pursued these cases throughout the Departments Civil Division and the U.S. Attorneys Offices, as well as the agency Offices of Inspector General, and the many federal and state agencies that contributed to the Departments recoveries this past fiscal year.  None The governments claims in the matters described above are allegations only; except where indicated, there has been no determination of liability. The numbers contained in this press release may differ slightly from the original press releases due to accrued interest.