  On the day her trial was to begin in U.S. District Court in Lubbock, Texas, Almighty Latin King and Queen Nation (ALKQN) member Marie Chavez, aka "Shorty," the wife of an alleged ALKQN leader Jose Nava, aka "Chino," pleaded guilty to a superseding indictment charging her and 16 co-defendants with various offenses related to alleged narcotics and weapons trafficking and violent activities.  Specifically, Chavez, 28, of Lubbock, pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to distribute and possession with intent to distribute five kilograms or more of cocaine and 100 kilograms or more of marijuana; and possession with intent to distribute 500 grams or more of cocaine. She faces a maximum statutory sentence of not less than 10 years and up to life in prison. A sentencing date has not yet been scheduled. Chavez has been in custody since her arrest in December 2008.  According to documents filed in court, Chavez admitted that from 2001 until the time of her arrest, she and co-defendants, Jose Robledo Nava, aka "Chino" (her husband); Luis Nava, aka "Flaco"; Reynaldo Nava, aka "Rat"; Robert Allen Ramirez, aka "Nesyo"; Carol Ann Rivas Nava; Cecily Dominique Juarez; Jesus Martinez, aka "Solid"; David Hellums, aka "CutThroat"; James Johnathan Cole, aka "Blitz"; Eduardo Daniel Mares, aka "Pitt"; Gabriel Lee Gonzales, Michael Conde, aka "Psycho"; Guerrero Olivas, aka "Screech;" John Guzman; Hiluterio Chavez, aka "Zeus"; and Eliseo Perez, aka "Wicked"; and others agreed to distribute and possess with intent to distribute cocaine and marijuana.  Chavez today admitted that in furtherance of the conspiracy she was responsible for at least 50 kilograms, but less than 150 kilograms of cocaine, and at least 100 kilograms, but less than 400 kilograms of marijuana. Chavez further admitted that she and her co-defendants intentionally and knowingly possessed with the intent to distribute cocaine and marijuana, and distributed cocaine and marijuana to others. According to the indictment, they acquired the cocaine and marijuana from Mexico and brought it to the South Texas region, where it was packaged, stored, and transported to Big Spring, Texas, Lubbock, and Midland, Texas, for further distribution.  Chavez today admitted that she transported, divided, packaged, distributed and stored cocaine and marijuana throughout North Texas and that she would send cash to other co-conspirators in furtherance of this conspiracy. She further admitted that on Dec. 13, 2008, she and co-defendants Jose Robledo Nava, Reynaldo Nava and Carol Ann Rivas Nava knowingly and intentionally possessed with intent to distribute 500 grams or more, but less than five kilograms, of cocaine.  Chavez is the tenth defendant in the case to plead guilty. Others who have pleaded guilty include:  Jesus Martinez, aka "Solid," 28, of Midland  John Guzman, 30, of Big Spring  Hiluterio Chavez, aka "Zeus," 33, of Chicago  Eliseo Perez, aka "Wicked," 28, of Mission, Texas  Luis Nava, aka "Flaco," 25, of Midland  Reynaldo Nava, aka "Rat," 27, of Big Spring  Carol Ann Rivas Nava, 20, of Big Spring  Cecily Dominique Juarez, 20, of Midland  Guerro Olivas, aka "Screech," 26, of Big Spring  The indictment also alleged that from 2004 through mid July 2005, defendants Jose Robledo Nava, Jesus Martinez and Hiluterio Chavez conspired to deal in firearms. Last month, Jesus Martinez and Huluterio Chavez pleaded guilty to conspiring to engage in the business of dealing firearms.  Jose Robledo Nava is allegedly the ALKQN leader in Texas. He, along with James Johnathan Cole, Robert Allen Ramirez, Gabriel Lee Gonzales and Eduardo Daniel Mares are charged in the indictment with the May 4, 2008, murders of Valerie Garcia and Michael Cardona, in Big Spring.  The case is being investigated by the National Gang Targeting, Enforcement, and Coordinating Center (Gang TECC); the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force (OCDETF); the Midland and El Paso U.S. Attorneys Offices; the FBI; the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency; U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement; the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; the El Paso Intelligence Center; U.S. Customs and Border Protection; the U.S. Marshals Service; the Texas Department of Public Safety; the Lubbock, Midland, Houston, San Antonio and Big Spring, Texas, Police Departments; the Lubbock County Sheriffs Office; and the Howard County, Texas, District Attorneys Office.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Cody L. Skipper of the Lubbock U.S. Attorneys Office and Trial Attorney Joseph A. Cooley of the Criminal Divisions Gang Unit are prosecuting the case.