Thirteen commercial fishermen in North Carolina and Georgia have been charged in federal court in Raleigh, North Carolina, for their role in the illegal harvest and sale and false reporting of approximately 90,000 pounds of Atlantic striped bass from federal waters off the coast of North Carolina during 2009 and 2010, the Justice Department announced today. The average retail value of the illegally harvested striped bass is approximately $1.1 million.NoneThe illegal poaching of striped bass by commercial fishermen can have a huge collective impact on the fish resource and has the potential to devastate the future livelihoods of law abiding commercial fishermen, said Assistant Attorney General John C. Cruden for the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division. The vast majority of fishermen do respect the law and carefully monitor their harvest to ensure they stay within the well-researched limits. Those who deliberately break the law will be prosecuted.The Atlantic Striped Bass fishery is extremely important to the economy of the State of North Carolina as well as our sister States along the Atlantic seaboard, and it represents a success in species recovery thanks to conservation, management, and law-abiding fishermen, said U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of North Carolina Thomas G. Walker. Illegal harvesting of this protected species and submitting false reports to federal agencies undermine those efforts and adversely impact our entire coastal communities.All of the defendants are licensed by the state of North Carolina and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to fish in state waters only for striped bass. The individuals charged are:Gaston Saunders Jr. of Wanchese, North CarolinaBryan Daniels of Belhaven, North CarolinaEllis Leon Gibbs Jr. of Engelhard, North CarolinaDavid Saunders of Poplar Branch, North CarolinaMichael Potter of Bayboro, North CarolinaSteven Daniels of Wanchese, North CarolinaJames R. Craddock of Manns Harbor, North CarolinaJames K. Lewis of Gloucester, North CarolinaJoseph H. Williams of Brunswick, GeorgiaDewey W. Lewis, Jr. of Newport, North CarolinaDwayne J. Hopkins of Belhaven, North CarolinaRonald W. Berry of Kill Devil Hills, North CarolinaJohn F. Roberts of Engelhard, North CarolinaNoneUnder federal law, Atlantic striped bass may not be harvested from or possessed in federal waters. This ban on fishing for Atlantic striped bass in federal waters has been in place since 1990 due to drastic declines of the stock that occurred in the 1970s. North Carolina allows fishermen to harvest fish from state waters, but often limits fishermen to no more than 100 fish per fishing trip. Commercial fishermen are required to report on a fishing vessel trip report the fish harvested from state waters; that report is then submitted to NOAAs National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS). NOAA uses the information on this report to assess the fishery and its sustainability throughout the eastern seaboard.According to the Atlantic Marine Fisheries Commission, striped bass have formed the basis of one of the most important fisheries on the Atlantic coast for centuries. Early records recount their abundance as being so great at one time they were used to fertilize fields. However, overfishing and poor environmental conditions lead to the collapse of the fishery in the 1980s.The North Carolina Division of Marine Fisheries, along with other states, has reduced, twenty-five percent, the catch limits for the 2015 striped bass commercial fishing season in the Atlantic Ocean and Albemarle Sound/Roanoke River areas, citing a decline in stocks. The division cited 2013 surveys revealing that the female spawning stock has been steadily declining. The reduction applies to all commercial and recreational striped bass fishing for all the eastern coastal states.A criminal indictment is not a finding of guilt. An individual charged by criminal indictment is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty in a court of law.The Lacey Act makes it unlawful for a person to transport or sell fish that were taken in violation of any law or regulation of the United States and carries a maximum penalty of five years in prison and a fine of up to $250,000, plus the potential forfeiture of the vessels and vehicles used in committing the offense.The charges are a result of the investigation by NOAAs Office of Law Enforcement, with assistance from the U.S. Coast Guard and its Investigative Service, the North Carolina Marine Patrol, and the Virginia Marine Police. These cases are being prosecuted primarily by Trial Attorneys Shennie Patel, Shane Waller, Lauren Steele, and Joel LaBissonniere, from the Justice Departments Environmental Crimes Section, Environment and Natural Resources Division, and Assistant U.S. Attorney Banumathi Rangarajan.