NoneThe defendant threatened and intimidated a couple in their home and neighborhood, denying them of the simple ability to feel safe where they lived, on account of race, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Tom Wheeler of the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division. The Justice Department will continue to vigorously prosecute those who engage in such violent acts.NoneUnfortunately, people hold bias and prejudice against others for no apparent reason, said Special Agent in Charge Paul Wysopal of the FBI Tampa Division. This case demonstrates people who act out such prejudices will be held accountable. Such behavior is unacceptable.According to court documents, in September and October 2012, Sigler was living on Seward Drive in Port Richey in a predominantly white community. After an interracial couple moved next door, Sigler harassed the African-American neighbor with racial slurs and derogatory statements, and on one occasion, physically assaulted him. On Halloween night, Sigler attended a party at a neighbors house, where several Seward Drive residents decided to burn a cross in the front yard of the interracial couple in order to intimidate them and force them to move from the residence. Using wood and tools from the host of the Halloween party, Sigler and his co-conspirators constructed a wooden cross and poured gasoline on the cross. Siglers co-conspirators then carried the cross to the victims front yard, leaned it against their mailbox, and set the cross on fire. One of Siglers co-conspirators, Pascual Carlos Pietri, pled guilty to the same charge as Sigler in 2015, and was sentenced to 37 months imprisonment on March 23, 2016. A third co-conspirator, William A. Dennis, 56, of Pasco County, Florida, is also charged for his role in the conspiracy.This case was investigated by the FBI. It was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Josephine W. Thomas and Simon A. Gaugush of the Middle District of Florida and Trial Attorney William E. Nolan of the Civil Rights Divisions Criminal Section.