  WASHINGTON  The national president of the American Outlaw Association (Outlaws) motorcycle gang was sentenced today to 20 years in prison for leading a violent criminal organization.   U.S. Attorney Neil H. MacBride of the Eastern District of Virginia; Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Criminal Division; and Rich Marianos, Acting Special Agent in Charge of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) Washington Field Division made the announcement after sentencing by U.S. District Judge Henry E. Hudson.   Jack Rosga led an outlaw motorcycle gang that was violent at its core, said U.S. Attorney MacBride. As the gangs national president, Mr. Rosga declared war on the rival Hells Angels and ordered violent acts on rival gang members. Mr. Rosga admitted to undercover federal agents that he expected to go to jail for leading this violent motorcycle gang, and the jury convicted him of conspiracy to commit racketeering and violent acts. He spent decades dedicated to a criminal way of life, and hell now spend decades in prison paying for those crimes.      The Outlaws motorcycle gang that Jack Rosga led is responsible for numerous crimes across multiple states, said Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Justice Departments Criminal Division. Mr. Rosgas conduct, and the violent activities of his organized criminal enterprise, must have severe consequences. Todays sentence reflects that. We will not tolerate organized criminal gangs in our communities.  This investigation is one of many that reinforces ATFs commitment to fighting violent crime, said ATF Acting Special Agent in Charge Rich Marianos. In partnership with the U.S. Attorneys Office, we will continue to focus our efforts on putting the worst of the worst violent criminals behind bars so that our neighbors can feel safer in their communities. None   According to court documents and evidence at trial, the Outlaws motorcycle gang is a highly organized criminal enterprise with a defined, multi-level chain of command that is ultimately overseen by Rosga, the national president. Leaders and members of the Outlaws in multiple states including Wisconsin, Maine, Montana, North Carolina, Tennessee, South Carolina and Virginia are charged in a June 2010 indictment. Under Rosgas leadership, the enterprise is alleged to have engaged in violent racketeering activities with the intent to expand its influence and to control various parts of the country against rival motorcycle gangs, particularly the Hells Angels.   Court records indicate that the Outlaws planned multiple acts of violence against rival motorcycle gangs, including shows of force at the Cycle Expo in Henrico County, Va., in 2006; Dinwiddie Racetrack in Virginia in 2008; the Cockades Bar in Petersburg, Va., in 2009; Daytona Bike Week in Florida in 2009; and the Easyrider Bike Expo in Charlotte, N.C., in 2010. The indictment alleges that in the Cockades Bar show of force, members of the Pagans Motorcycle Club joined the Outlaws in the assault against rival gangs.   In addition, the evidence showed that in 2008, the Outlaws established a clubhouse in Rock Hill, S.C., in territory traditionally controlled by the Hells Angels. The Outlaws understood that this act would create violent friction between the two organizations.   Court records also established that in September 2009, two members of the Outlaws were assaulted in Connecticut by members of the Hells Angels. This caused the Outlaws to increase their already violent approach to the Hells Angels in retaliation. In October 2009, this led to the alleged attempted murder of a Hells Angels member outside the Hells Angels clubhouse in Canaan, Maine. The victim was seriously injured from gunshot wounds to his neck.   In addition, the evidence showed that on April 17, 2010, Outlaw members of the Milwaukee and other Wisconsin chapters in the Gold Region participated in a charitable event known as the Flood Run, crossing from Wisconsin into Minnesota where they brutally beat members of the Hells Angels and stole their club patches, also known as colors.   Witnesses at the trial also testified that the Outlaws regularly used and distributed narcotics and regularly used firearms or other dangers weapons.   The case was investigated by the ATFs Washington Field Division; the FBIs Washington Field Office; the Virginia State Police; the Chesterfield County Police Department; the Maine State Police, and numerous other law enforcement partners throughout the country. The prosecution was handled by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Dennis Fitzpatrick and Peter S. Duffey, Special Assistant U.S. Attorney Sam Kaplan, and Trial Attorney Theryn G. Gibbons of the Justice Departments Criminal Divisions Gang Unit.