The Depatment of Justice and U.S. Attorney Wendy J. Olson for the District of Idaho announced today that they reached an agreement with the Jerome County, Id., Sheriffs Office to resolve the allegations that Jerome County violated the employment rights of Idaho Army National Guard Member Mervin Jones while he was recuperating from a knee injury that he sustained while performing military service.The departments complaint alleged that the Jerome County Sheriffs Office violated the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994 (USERRA) by failing to properly reemploy and subsequently terminating Jones following his service with the Idaho Army National Guard. The complaint states that Jones began working for the Jerome County Sheriffs Office as a correctional deputy in 2002. By 2007, he had been promoted through the ranks to corporal. During his employment with the sheriffs office, Jones suffered a knee injury while deployed to Iraq in 2004, which Jones later aggravated in 2008 during a weekend training event with his guard unit. The complaint alleges that in 2009, while Jones was still recuperating from multiple knee surgeries, the sheriffs office forced him to complete Family Medical Leave Act paperwork even though his leave was protected under USERRA, denied him light duty work to accommodate his physical limitations caused by the knee injury, attempted to subject him to an unlawful fitness for duty evaluation and physical fitness test before allowing him to return to work, and terminated his employment during the period of time permitted by USERRA to recover from an injury incurred in the line of duty. The settlement reached is a compromise to avoid the expense and uncertainty of litigation.NoneNoneThe case stems from a referral by the United States Department of Labor following an investigation by the Department of Labors Veterans Employment and Training Service. This case is being handled by the Civil Rights Division and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Idaho.Additional information about USERRA can be found on the Justice Department website: www.servicemembers.gov and www.usdoj.gov/crt/emp, as well as on the Labor Departments website at www.dol.gov/vets/programs/userra/main.htm. Consent decree