A New York surgeon who practiced at hospitals in Brooklyn and Long Island, New York, was convicted last night for submitting millions of dollars in false and fraudulent claims to Medicare.Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Robert L. Capers of the Eastern District of New York, Assistant Director in Charge Diego G. Rodriguez of the FBIs New York Division and Special Agent in Charge Scott Lampert of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services-Office of Inspector General (HHS-OIG) New York Regional Office made the announcement.Syed Imran Ahmed, 51, of Long Island, New York, was convicted of one count of health care fraud, three counts of making false statements related to health care matters and two counts of money laundering.According to evidence presented at trial, Ahmed submitted millions of dollars in false claims to the Medicare program for incision-and-drainage and wound debridement surgeries that he did not perform. Trial evidence showed that many of the claims also falsely stated that the surgeries were performed in an operating room, even though Ahmed never performed the surgeries. The evidence introduced at trial showed Ahmed submitted over $25 million in false claims to the Medicare program for surgeries he never performed and he received over $3 million from Medicare as payment for the false claims.The FBI and HHS-OIG investigated the case, which was brought as part of the Medicare Fraud Strike Force under the supervision of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and the U.S. Attorneys Office of the Eastern District of New York. Fraud Section Trial Attorneys Turner Buford and Debra Jaroslawicz and Senior Litigation Counsel Patricia Notopoulos of the Eastern District of New York are prosecuting the case.Since its inception in March 2007, the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, now operating in nine cities across the country, has charged nearly 2,900 defendants who have collectively billed the Medicare program for more than $10 billion. In addition, the HHS Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, working in conjunction with the HHS-OIG, are taking steps to increase accountability and decrease the presence of fraudulent providers.None