  WASHINGTON  Two Houston-area nurses and two of their co-conspirators have been sentenced in Houston for their participation in a $5.2 million Medicare fraud scheme, announced the Department of Justice, the FBI and the Department of Health and Human Service (HHS).  The defendants were sentenced by U.S. District Judge Nancy Atlas in the Southern District of Texas. The four defendants were ordered to pay restitution jointly and severally with co-conspirators and defendants in a related case. As part of the sentencing, the court found that Ellis had obstructed justice by testifying untruthfully at trial.  According to the evidence presented at trial and in court documents, Family Healthcare Group, a Houston home health care company, purported to provide skilled nursing to Medicare beneficiaries. Family Healthcare Group paid Ellis, Porter, Island and other co-conspirators to recruit Medicare beneficiaries for the purpose of filing claims with Medicare for skilled nursing that was medically unnecessary and/or not provided. According to evidence presented at trial, Njoku and Ellis falsified documents to support the fraudulent payments. After the Medicare beneficiaries were recruited, other co-conspirators fraudulently signed plans of care stating that the beneficiaries needed home health care when in fact they knew the beneficiaries were not home-bound and not in need of skilled nursing.  Co-defendant Adelma Casas Sevilla, a registered nurse, was previously sentenced to 18 months in prison. A second co-defendant, Sammie Wilson, received three years of probation after pleading guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit health care fraud. Four other defendants involved in the scheme are pending sentencing.  The sentences were announced by Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Justice Departments Criminal Division; U.S. Attorney Kenneth Magidson of the Southern District of Texas; Special Agent-In-Charge Stephen L. Morris of the FBIs Houston Field Office; Special Agent-in-Charge Mike Fields of the Dallas Regional Office of HHSs Office of the Inspector General (HHS-OIG) and the Texas Attorney Generals Medicaid Fraud Control Unit (MFCU).  This case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Charles D. Reed and Deputy Chief Sam S. Sheldon of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section. The case was investigated by the FBI, HHS-OIG, Texas OAG-MFCU and the Federal Railroad Retirement Board-OIG, and was brought as part of the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, supervised by the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of Texas.  Since their inception in March 2007, Medicare Fraud Strike Force operations in nine locations have charged more than 1,190 defendants who collectively have falsely billed the Medicare program for more than $3.2 billion. In addition, the HHS Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, working in conjunction with the HHS-OIG, are taking steps to increase accountability and decrease the presence of fraudulent providers.None