  In a speech Tuesday, Attorney  General Eric Holder called Syria "a cradle of violent extremism" and urged  multilateral law enforcement action to confront the security threat posed by  radicalized individuals from the United States and Europe traveling there.   An estimated 7,000 foreign  fighters, including dozens of Americans, have streamed into Syria to participate  in the conflict there. These individuals can link up with violent extremist  groups operating in the region and then seek to return to their home countries  with training in how to carry out violence on a large scale. Attorney General  Holder said the U.S. and its allies have a mutual interest in confronting this  trend, observing that the ability of citizens of European nations to travel,  visa-free, to the United States--and likewise, U.S. citizens' ability to freely  visit Europe--means that "the problem of fighters in Syria returning to any of  our countries is a problem for all of our countries."   Holder called for a four-part  strategy to counter the threat. The approach includes enacting statutes that  allow governments to prosecute planning activities undertaken by radicalized  extremists seeking to aid terrorist groups. Holder also pointed to the Federal  Bureau of Investigation's undercover operations as a successful method for  identifying violent extremists and disrupting their plots. He also called for  more information sharing among nations about travelers to Syria, and for  expanded outreach to key communities in order to prevent individuals from  becoming radicalized in the first place.   "In the face of a threat so  grave, we cannot afford to be passive," Holder said. "Rather, we need the  benefit of investigative and prosecutorial tools that allow us to be preemptive  in our approach to confronting this problem. If we wait for our nations  citizens to travel to Syria or Iraq, to become radicalized, and to return home,  it may be too late to adequately protect our national security."   The Attorney General spoke in  Oslo at the U.S. ambassador's residence. The remarks followed one-on-one  meetings earlier Tuesday with both the Prime Minister of Norway and the  countrys Minister of Justice. In 2013, Norway amended its laws to criminalize  preparatory acts to terrorism, including training for terrorism, preparation for  terrorism and participation in a terrorist organization. In addition, last month  the Norwegian government announced a 30-point "Action Plan Against Radicalism  and Violent Extremism" that focuses on civic engagement and detection of  threats. Holder praised both steps in his remarks Tuesday and said the United  States looked forward to continued cooperation with Norway on these matters.   Later this week, Attorney General  Holder travels to London for the Sixth Annual Meeting of the Quintet of Attorney  Generals from the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Australia and New  Zealand. The issue of Syrian foreign fighters is expected to be part of those  discussions as well. None   Thank you for those kind words   and thank you all for such a warm welcome.  Ladies and gentlemen; distinguished  guests; leaders and citizens  it is a pleasure to be in Norway.  And its a  great privilege to be in the beautiful city of Oslo today.   Id like to  thank the Norwegian government  and especially Prime Minister [Erna] Solberg  and Minister of Justice [Anders] Anundsen, with whom I met earlier today  for  their hospitality.  Id also like to recognize our Charge, Julie Furuta-Toy, and  the hardworking men and women of the U.S. Embassy for bringing us together  and  for all that they do, every day, to advance our shared interests.   Its an honor to join them  and  to stand with all of you  in strengthening the ties that bind our nations  together; in discussing some of the most critical challenges the international  community must confront; and in reaffirming our mutual commitment to the values  we share, and the high ideals  of democracy, liberty, and equal justice under  law  that have defined our nations friendship over the past two centuries.   That friendship, and those  values, have deep roots.  Norwegian-Americans have played an important role in  the development of our country.  And your citizens and values have had an impact  around the world.  Two hundred years ago, Norway ratified a constitution that  asserted certain essential and immutable rights.  Through centuries of triumph  and challenge, our people and our governments have both been guided by a shared  understanding that all people are born free and equal.   Today, Norway is a leader in  extending worldwide the promise of equality and justice, through its own  development work overseas, and through its support of international  institutions.  And Norway leads global efforts to address urgent threats  most  recently in Syria, where Norwegian and American personnel are working  side-by-side to rid that country of chemical weapons.  Around the world, Norway  is recognized as a champion of democracy and human rights.  And, for decades,  youve been leading by example.   After all, as history teaches us   and as youve seen here in Norway and we in the United States  progress is  not inevitable.  And our democratic values, our open societies  and our  commitment to tolerance and inclusion  must be continuously protected against  agents of intolerance, extremism, and hate.   Particularly when hatred and  extremism take expression in acts of violence and terror, we must be resolute in  our protection of equal rights, democracy, and the rule of law.  And we must be  both innovative and aggressive in combating violent extremism in all its  forms.   It was just three years ago this  month that Norway endured devastating attacks on the government quarter of Oslo  and a Workers Youth League summer camp  heinous acts that shocked citizens  everywhere, and earned swift condemnation and sympathy from around the world   as President Obama stated, our hearts went out to you.  Horrific crimes like  these are not only terrible tragedies for the individuals and the nations  targeted; they test our fortitude and challenge the very foundations of who we  are.  Yet Norway has not faltered or changed its values  and is an example for  the world in this regard as well.   Like Norway, the United States is  all too familiar with domestic threats, having suffered deadly attacks on our  soil  including against government buildings, places of worship, and sporting  events.  These attacks, like the attacks you suffered here in Norway, share a  common theme:  they are attacks on tolerance, in the name of violent extremist  ideologies.   Under the Obama Administration,  while we have acted to protect our country and our allies, we have also  redoubled our commitment to civil rights and to tolerance.  This is what violent  extremists most fear, for their goal is to undermine open societies.  At the  same time, we also have joined with our international partners to ensure that  there is no impunity for those who seek to commit terrorist attacks.   Now,  Norway, the United States, and countries around the world face a new threat   the possibility that violent extremists fighting today in Syria, Iraq, or other  locations may seek to commit acts of terror tomorrow in our countries as  well.   U.S. intelligence officials  estimate that nearly 23,000 violent extremists are currently operating in  Syria.  Among these are over 7,000 foreign fighters  among whom are dozens of  Americans, a number that is growing.   We have a mutual and compelling  interest in developing shared strategies for confronting the influx of U.S.- and  European-born violent extremists into Syria.  And because our citizens can  freely travel, visa-free, from the U.S. to Norway and other European states   and vice versa  the problem of fighters in Syria returning to any of our  countries is a problem for all of our countries.   This is a global crisis in need  of a global solution.  The Syrian conflict has turned that region into a cradle  of violent extremism.  But the world cannot simply sit back and let it become a  training ground from which our nationals can return and launch attacks.  And we  will not.   In the face of a threat so grave,  we cannot afford to be passive.  Rather, we need the benefit of investigative  and prosecutorial tools that allow us to be preemptive in our approach to  confronting this problem.  If we wait for our nations citizens to travel to  Syria or Iraq, to become radicalized, and to return home, it may be too late to  adequately protect our national security.   Thats why we need to adopt a  multilateral four-pronged strategy to combat this threat, to counter violent  extremism in all its forms, and to keep our citizens safe.   The first element of our united  approach must be to ensure that there are laws in our systems that enable  governments to properly police that threat.  In its Rabat Memorandum, the Global  Counterterrorism Forum  a group of 30 countries from around the world, working  in partnership with the UN  stated that Criminalizing preparatory acts, such  as conspiracy, terrorist fundraising, terrorist recruitment, planning and  training, particularly when a terrorist attack has not yet been carried out, is  vital in an effective criminal justice preventive approach to  counterterrorism.  In this regard, the U.S. relies on a statute that  criminalizes the providing of material support to terrorist organizations.   Our material-support law, which was originally enacted in 1994 and amended after  the attacks in New York on September 11, 2001, bars not only contributions of  personnel, cash, weapons and other tangible aid to designated terrorist  organizations, but also intangible means of support  such as training, service,  and expert advice or assistance.  Similarly, in 2013, Norway amended its laws to  criminalize preparatory acts to terrorism, including training for terrorism,  preparation for terrorism and participation in a terrorist organization    Likewise, in 2012, France enacted a new statute that enables prosecutors to  charge individuals with criminal association with the intent to commit  terrorist acts.  Earlier this year, French authorities sentenced the nations  first three defendants under this new law; all three were plotting to travel to  Syria.  Today, I urge governments around the world to consider similar measures  that criminalize the preparatory acts committed by those with terrorist plans.   The second part of our  comprehensive strategy looks to ensure that we have in place law enforcement  investigative tools and techniques that are both effective and protective of  individual rights and the rule of law.  In this regard, we have found undercover  operations  which the Federal Bureau of Investigation pioneered in fighting  transnational organized crime  to be essential in fighting terrorism as well.   In the United States, the FBI has already conducted undercover operations that  have identified individuals with intentions to travel to Syria.  These  operations are conducted with extraordinary care and precision, ensuring that  law enforcement officials are accountable for the steps they take  and that  suspects are neither entrapped nor denied legal protections.  Here, too, the  Global Counterterrorism Forums Rabat Memorandum calls for such techniques to be  applied in countries around the world:  one of the good practices it advocates  is that countries Provide a Legal Framework and Practical Measures for  Undercover Investigations of Terrorist Suspects or Organizations.   Third: in order to further our  investigative capabilities, we must strengthen international cooperation, in a  variety of respects.  As an initial matter, we must prioritize the sharing of  traveler information as a potential way to prevent would-be foreign fighters  from going to Syria in the first place  and tracking those who come back.  The  United States is committed to doing its part in this regard.  As we speak,  through law enforcement agencies such as the FBI, U.S. authorities are working  with Interpol to disseminate information on foreign fighters.  We encourage  other countries to use Interpol  and Interpol notices  to combat the  foreign-fighter phenomenon.  And we are actively supporting Interpols Fusion  Cell, which focuses on information-sharing relating to foreign fighters.  In  fact, the U.S. has provided personnel, including FBI agents, to support this  specialized office.   While we are committed to  ensuring that we protect the safety of our fellow citizens, we are also  committed to protecting their privacy.  Alongside policymakers in Brussels,  were also working to attain an umbrella data-sharing agreement between the  United States and the European Union, that would strengthen the already strong  protections that are presently in existence and that ensure that law enforcement  information is shared effectively, and in accordance with data privacy  principles.  This agreement will guarantee that there will be no diminishment of  the key exchanges of law enforcement information, including terrorism  information, that is critical to the safety of citizens in Europe, the U.S., and  around the world.  And as a step to advance this endeavor, last month  in  Athens  I announced a United States commitment that the Obama Administration  would seek legislation to create the ability  for non-U.S. persons  to seek  judicial redress for access and rectification, and for willful or intentional  disclosure, of law enforcement information transferred to the United States.   This is an historic commitment by the United States to extend privacy  protections beyond U.S. persons in this context.  It is imperative that we reach  an umbrella agreement in this regard as soon as possible.  The time for  posturing has long past.  It is time for nations that have long shared  fundamental views about privacy to act together.   Countries must also effectively  use mutual legal assistance and extradition to counter foreign fighters.  Here,  too, the Rabat Memorandum of the Global Counterterrorism Forum is instructive:   Because terrorism often transcends national boundaries, timely and effective  international cooperation is indispensable to a criminal justice response to  terrorism.  Through international mutual legal assistance, the U.S. Department  of Justice has provided evidence to countries for use in prosecutions of  terrorist organizations  including terrorist groups that were recruiting others  to fight in Syria.  We continue to assist foreign partners around the globe by  acting on mutual legal assistance requests and providing evidence to support  those criminal investigations and prosecutions.  And we believe its critical  that countries develop their abilities to effectively engage in mutual legal  assistance  including by strengthening their central authorities  so that we  can work together to counter this shared threat.   International cooperation also  means working together to build the capacity of other nations, as Norway does in  so many different contexts.  Norwegian and U.S. Department of Justice legal  advisors have worked together to build Rule of Law in Georgia and Moldova.  And  to enhance similar efforts on a global scale, the U.S. Department of Justice is  providing capacity-building assistance to help our partners build fair and  transparent justice systems that will allow their countries to confront  transnational crime and terrorism, including the problem of foreign fighters.   Applying the standards of the UN Counterterrorism Treaties, and the best  practices of the Rabat Memorandum, our capacity-building work, and that of our  foreign partners, has helped advance laws permitting police and prosecutors to  more effectively investigate and prosecute suspected foreign fighters, within  the Rule of Law  leading to the disruption of foreign fighters and the  dismantlement of organizations that recruit would-be fighters to travel to  Syria.  Through ongoing programs in places such as the Balkans, Africa, and  elsewhere, we continue to work with international partners to help them stem the  flows of foreign fighters; to use the tools they have to more effectively impede  their movements; and to assist in the investigation and prosecution of foreign  fighters once captured.   Today, I challenge additional  nations to step forward, as Norway has.  Commit to robust, and  privacy-protective, data-sharing in service of our mutual security.  Pledge  support for Interpols Transnational Fighter Initiative.  Support mutual legal  assistance and capacity building.  And urge others to do their part by  participating fully in these efforts  which will be effective only to the  extent that they are as comprehensive as possible.   The fourth and final element of  our strategy is founded on the notion that strong laws, effective investigative  tools, and robust information-sharing must be matched with public engagement   and extensive community outreach.  We must seek to stop individuals from  becoming radicalized in the first place by putting in place strong programs to  counter violent extremism in its earliest stages.  In my time here in Norway, I  have had the chance to learn about  and have been deeply impressed by   Norways Action Plan Against Radicalization and Violent Extremism.   Indeed, I have found it critical  to engage in international exchanges with my counterparts regarding how we can  do better on combating radicalization, and to learn from each other.   I will  take home with me important lessons from Norways experience.  These lessons  will help us implement our own National Strategy and Strategic Implementation  Plan, which is led by the Justice Department, the FBI, the Department of  Homeland Security, and the National Counterterrorism Center.   Our approach depends on building  mutual trust and respect with members of communities across the country  so  that we can understand their needs and concerns and to foster open dialogue with  community leaders and citizens.  This enables us to work with them to mitigate  tensions and identify emerging threats.   At the heart of these engagement  efforts in the United States are our United States Attorneys, the chief federal  prosecutors in each of the jurisdictions they serve.  Since 2012, our U.S.  Attorneys have held or attended more than 1,700 engagement-related events.  And  the resulting relationships have not only served to build trust.  They have also  produced valuable cooperation, in some cases spurring community members to alert  law enforcement about individuals who show an inclination to turn to  violence.   Across the United States and in  countries around the world, such counter-radicalization programs show  significant promise.  They serve our broader aim of fostering tolerance,  inclusion, and understanding  which are themselves powerful tools against  violent extremism.  But ultimately, our goal must be not just to fight  radicalization or apprehend dangerous individuals.  At its core, this work is  about forging more just and open societies  and building a more peaceful  world.   Thats why its especially  fitting that we recommit ourselves to these efforts here in Oslo  where so many  of mankinds highest ideals and aspirations have been recognized.  For more than  a century, this city has welcomed some of the most devoted peacemakers the world  has ever known  from the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., who advocated  for a more noble civilization in the midst of Americas long night of racial  injustice; to Nelson Mandela, who insisted that an injury to one is an injury  to all.   Throughout history, these  pioneers of peace have called us to recognize that our capacity for courage has  no limit.  The struggle for human rights, civil rights, and equal justice knows  no borders or boundaries.  Yet their stories also remind us that, for all the  progress that they have made possible, our journey still stretches beyond the  horizon.  And our work has no end.   You know as well as anyone that  the work ahead will not be easy.  None of the challenges we face are simple or  straightforward.  We will suffer setbacks. But so long as we remain committed to  standing together, working together, and striving together  as people of  courage, as leaders of conviction, and as nations of high ideals  I cannot help  but feel optimistic about where our joint efforts will lead us.  I thank you  all, once again, for your leadership, your collaboration, and your friendship.   And I look forward to everything the United States and the Kingdom of Norway  will achieve together in the months and years to come.   Thank you.