    Following a comprehensive investigation, the Justice Department today released its letter of findings determining that the city of Miami Police Department (MPD) has engaged in a pattern or practice of excessive use of force through officer-involved shootings in violation of the Fourth Amendment of the Constitution. Between 2008 and 2011, officers intentionally shot at individuals on 33 separate occasions, three of which MPD itself found unjustified. The department found that a number of MPD practices, including deficient tactics, improper actions by specialized units, as well as egregious delays and substantive deficiencies in deadly force investigations, contributed to the pattern or practice of excessive force.     The department's findings noted that MPD did not provide close supervision or hold individuals accountable for their actions by failing to complete thorough, objective and timely investigations of officer-involved shootings. For a significant number of the shootings, including one that occurred in 2008, MPD has not reached a conclusion internally as to whether or not the officers firearm discharge was lawful and within policy. The Justice Department found that MPDs failure to complete timely and thorough investigations of officer-involved shootings undermined accountability and exposed MPD officers and the community to unreasonable risks that might have been addressed through prompt corrective action, noting that several investigations remained open for more than three years. Significantly, a small number of officers were involved in a disproportionate number of shootings, while the investigations into their shootings continued to be egregiously delayed. The findings released today mark the conclusion of the departments second investigation of MPD in recent years. The department noted that similar deficiencies were found in its previous investigation that began in 2002.     Although MPD appeared to correct course after our first investigation, many of the systemic problems that we previously identified returned to root deeply in MPDs practices. Our findings should serve as a catalyst to help MPD and the city of Miami restore the communitys confidence in fair, effective and accountable law enforcement, said Roy L. Austin Jr, Deputy Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division. We look forward to collaborating with Chief Orosa, Mayor Regalado and the people of Miami to create and implement a comprehensive, court-enforceable plan to ensure sustainable reform. None None None 