NoneFrom April 12 through May 6, U.S. Attorneys in California, Colorado, Connecticut, Idaho, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, New Jersey, Ohio and Utah will work with community leaders and law enforcement to address discrimination, violence and harassment targeting people because of what they look like, which country they come from or where they worship. The aim is to reaffirm the Department of Justices commitment to protecting civil rights and preventing and prosecuting hate crimes.The Department of Justice is determined to uphold the fundamental principle that all Americans should be free from violence and protected from hatred no matter who they are, what they look like, or where they're from, said Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch. These events underscore our ongoing commitment to safeguard the civil rights of every American  including Muslim, Arab, Sikh and South Asian Americans, who are so often the targets of threats on the basis of their appearance or religion. There is no place for intolerance in our country. In the weeks and months ahead, the Department of Justice will continue to work with local law enforcement partners and community leaders to defend the safety and the dignity of all our people.During the last several months, individuals who are, or who are perceived to be, Muslim, Arab, Sikh and South Asian have been targeted for harassment and violence around the country. A Connecticut man pleaded guilty to firing a high-powered rifle at a mosque; a Florida man pleaded guilty to threatening to firebomb two mosques and shoot their congregants; a former Missouri man pleaded guilty to violating the civil rights of others by leading a conspiracy to deface a local Islamic center with graffiti and burn two copies of the Quran; and a New York man was sentenced to 13 months in prison for emailing death threats to the executive director of an Islamic advocacy group.Places of worship also face discrimination through unlawful barriers to construction in many communities around the country. In the last year, the Justice Department filed suit against Des Plaines, Illinois, over the citys denial of rezoning to allow a Muslim congregation to use a vacant office building as a mosque. The complaint alleged that the city treated the mosque less favorably than it has treated nonreligious assemblies, discriminated against the mosque based on religion and imposed a substantial burden on the mosque members religious exercise without justification. The Justice Department also closed its investigation into Norwalk, Connecticut, after the city made changes to treat religious assemblies equally with nonreligious assemblies in five of its zoning districts. The department had opened an investigation of Norwalks zoning practices in 2012 in response to the citys denial of a special use permit to the Al Madany Islamic Center to build a mosque on land it had bought in a residential zoning district.Backlash against Muslim, Arab, Sikh and South Asian Americans can have a particularly harmful impact on education, employment and housing. In March, the Civil Rights Division announced that the Educational Opportunities Section launched a new enforcement initiative with the U.S. Attorneys Offices to strengthen our efforts to combat religious discrimination in schools and other educational settings. The new initiative, together with Justice Departments recent work in Bakersfield, California; Lewisville, Texas; Pine Bush, New York; Dearborn Heights, Michigan; DeKalb County, Georgia; and many more cities and counties through the nation, will help ensure that schools remain free from discrimination, harassment and violence for all students.NoneNone