NoneNoneIn addition to the priority placed on paying Group A claims as quickly as possible, the Special Master has also issued updated regulations as an Interim Final Rule, with a 30-day post-publication comment period, as well as created an updated claim form.It has taken a tremendous amount of work to update the regulations to reflect the reauthorization law and to redesign the claim form to make it easier to use, while at the same time continuing to implement the other changes required by the reauthorization, said VCF Special Master Sheila Birnbaum. I encourage claimants to review the new sample claim form and begin gathering the relevant information and documents so they are prepared to submit their claim when the form becomes available online and in hard copy at the end of July. I realize no amount of money can alleviate the losses suffered on Sept. 11, 2001, but the 9-11 community is one of great resilience, and the men and women who are working so hard to process VCF claims are proud and privileged to work with all of you.NoneNoneThe VCF continues to review Group B claims and contact claimants to request missing information when needed. The VCF has rendered more than 2,500 eligibility decisions since the beginning of January and completed loss calculations for more than 1,000 claims. The VCF continues to send Group B Complete letters to claimants to inform them that their claim has been reviewed and any eligible loss has been calculated. The Special Master expects to begin issuing the first Group B loss determinations at the end of June, with the expectation that the first full payments will be authorized in mid-August. This is contingent on finalizing the accounting for Group A payments and the subsequent availability of Group B funding.Claimants are encouraged to call the VCF Helpline at 1-855-885-1555 with any questions they may have. For the hearing impaired, please call 1-855-885-1558 (TDD). If you are calling from outside the United States, please call 1-202-514-1100. 