None     As early as 2008, Roquette was aware that its waste water treatment plant was marginally adequate and that it could not handle spills or surges in loading.  Instead of constructing additional containment structures for waste water surges, or routing spills to the waste water treatment plant, Roquette allowed the industrial waste to be discharged directly into the Mississippi River and Soap Creek.     Roquettes actions resulted in over a thousand permit violations and allowed the discharge of untreated industrial waste into the Mississippi River and another Iowa waterway even after it was informed on numerous occasions it was violating its state permit and federal law, said Ignacia S. Moreno, Assistant Attorney General of the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division. This settlement holds Roquette accountable for its multiple violations of the nations Clean Water Act and requires sewer improvements, wastewater treatment upgrades, enhanced monitoring and independent compliance audits that will benefit public health and the environment for the people of Iowa for years to come.     The magnitude of these violations warrants the magnitude of the penalty, said EPA Region 7 Administrator Karl Brooks.  The Mississippi River is a vital waterway, used by millions of Americans for commerce, recreation and drinking water.  It is imperative that industrial facilities abide by their discharge permits to protect our valuable water resources.     The Iowa Department of Natural Resources has issued three administrative orders and eight notices of violation to Roquette since 2000.  Despite these orders and notices, Roquette continued to overload its waste water treatment plant and failed to address the deficiencies at other portions of its facility, resulting in permit violations and illegal discharges of untreated industrial waste.       The Keokuk facility violated its NPDES permit at least 1,174 times, and on at least 30 occasions illegally discharged via storm drains resulting in at least 250,000 gallons of industrial waste being released into the Mississippi River and Soap Creek.  In addition to these permit violations and illegal discharges, Roquette discharged partially treated industrial waste from its waste water treatment plant, and discharged steam condensate into Soap Creek through an unpermitted outfall.     In addition to paying the penalty, Roquette will complete other requirements valued at more than $17 million to further protect the Mississippi River and Soap Creek.  Among these requirements are the completion of a sewer survey to identify possible discharge locations, the implementation of sewer modifications, the construction of upgrades to the wastewater treatment plant, and the performance of enhanced effluent monitoring.  In addition, Roquette will obtain annual third party audits of its compliance with the operations and maintenance program, the Storm Water Pollution Prevention Program, the companys NPDES permits, and the compliance requirements set out in the consent decree.  None None