  WASHINGTON  Detroit-area residents Faisal Chaudry and Guy Ross pleaded guilty today in U.S. District Court in Detroit for their participation in a fraudulent Medicare home health scheme, the Departments of Justice and Health and Human Services (HHS) announced.   Also today, a Detroit-area patient recruiter was sentenced to 2 years in prison for his role in a separate Medicare fraud scheme.   Chaudry, 32, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Court Judge Denise Page Hood in the Eastern District of Michigan to one count of conspiracy to commit health care fraud.   Ross, 49, pleaded guilty before Judge Hood to one count of conspiracy to receive health care kickbacks.   At sentencing, scheduled for Oct. 21, 2010, Chaudry faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine; Ross faces a maximum penalty of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine.     According to the plea documents, Chaudry was a physical therapy assistant who worked for All American Home Care Inc., and other affiliated entities.   All American purported to provide home health services, including physical therapy services, to Medicare beneficiaries.   Chaudry admitted that he signed documents, including therapy visit and revisit notes, that purported to document home health visits to Medicare beneficiaries.   The documents were then used by All American to bill Medicare.   Chaudry admitted in court documents that a large majority of these home health visits never occurred.   Chaudry also admitted that he was paid approximately $45 by the owners of All American for each document he signed.   According to court documents, Chaudry signed documents used to justify approximately $917,394 in home health claims by All American for patients he either never saw or for whom home health services were medically unnecessary.   Chaudry admitted that he knew the files he helped falsify were used to justify fraudulent billings to Medicare.   None   According to court documents, Ross also admitted to engaging in a similar scheme with a home health agency called Visiting Nurses Services (VNS), also a home health agency that purportedly provided physical therapy services.   Ross admitted he accepted money in exchange for providing patient referrals to VNS.   According to court documents, Ross referred approximately 80 patients to VNS and VNS submitted claims for $300,050 as a result of those referrals.   In total, Rosss kickback arrangements with these home health agencies resulted in $472,623 in improper benefits paid by Medicare to the home health agencies. None   Todays guilty pleas and sentencing were announced by Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Criminal Division; U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Michigan Barbara L. McQuade; Special Agent in Charge Andrew G. Arena of the FBIs Detroit Field Office; and Special Agent in Charge Lamont Pugh III of the HHS Office of Inspector Generals (OIG) Chicago Regional Office.   These cases were prosecuted by Assistant Chief John K. Neal and Trial Attorney Gejaa T. Gobena of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section.   The cases were investigated by the FBI and HHS-OIG, and were brought as part of the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, supervised by the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of Michigan.      Since their inception in March 2007, Strike Force operations in seven districts have obtained indictments of more than 635 individuals who collectively have falsely billed the Medicare program for more than $1.4 billion.   In addition, HHSs Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, working in conjunction with the HHS-OIG, are taking steps to increase accountability and decrease the presence of fraudulent providers. None