None  An indictment unsealed today in U.S. District Court in Miami charges Flor Crisologo, 58, with one count of conspiracy to defraud the United States, to cause the submission of false claims to the Medicare program, and to pay health care kickbacks; one count of conspiracy to commit health care fraud; and three counts of submitting false claims to the Medicare program.   Crisologo also is charged with one count of conspiracy to launder the proceeds of her crimes and four counts of money laundering.   Crisologo made her initial appearance today in U.S. District Court in Miami before Magistrate Judge William C. Turnoff.      According to the indictment, Crisologo was the owner and operator of J & F Community Medical Center Inc.   The indictment alleges that Crisologo submitted approximately $23 million in false and fraudulent claims to the Medicare program for HIV injection and infusion services purportedly provided through J & F.   According to the indictment, Crisologo hired a physician at J & F and caused the physician to order unnecessary tests, sign false medical analyses and diagnosis forms, and authorize treatments to make it appear that medical services were being provided to patients who were Medicare beneficiaries.   The services included medically unnecessary injection and infusion therapies.   The indictment alleges that Crisologo and her co-conspirators paid Medicare beneficiaries kickbacks to induce the beneficiaries to claim they received legitimate services at the clinic when in fact the HIV infusion services were either not provided or were not medically necessary.   None   The maximum sentence for each count of conspiracy to defraud the United States and filing false claims is five years in prison.   The maximum sentence for each count of conspiracy to commit health care fraud, conspiracy to commit money laundering and money laundering is 10 years in prison.   The indictment seeks forfeiture of assets held by the defendant.      An indictment is merely a charge and defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty. None   This case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Joseph S. Beemsterboer of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section.   The case was investigated by the FBI and HHS-OIG, and was brought as part of the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, supervised by the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of Miami.      Since their inception in March 2007, Strike Force operations in seven districts have obtained indictments of more than 560 individuals who collectively have falsely billed the Medicare program for more than $1.2 billion. In addition, the HHS Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, working in conjunction with the HHS-OIG, are taking steps to increase accountability and decrease the presence of fraudulent providers. None