  The Attorney General released the following statement today on the ongoing investigation into the explosions in Boston:   I want to express my deepest sympathies to the victims of yesterdays heinous attack in Boston, to those who suffered injuries, and to those who lost friends and loved ones.   All of you will be in my thoughts and prayers.   As our nation struggles to make sense of this attack, I want to assure the citizens of Boston  and all Americans  that the U.S. Department of Justice, the FBI, and all of our federal, state, and local partners are working tirelessly to determine who was responsible for these unspeakable acts, and to make certain they are held accountable to the fullest extent of the law and by any means available to us.   To this end, I have directed that the full resources of the Department be deployed to ensure that this matter is fully investigated.   We will continue working closely with the Boston Police Department and the Massachusetts State Police  who have performed superbly  to respond to this tragedy, to maintain a heightened state of security, and to prevent any future attacks from occurring.   As President Obama stated earlier today, we are treating this event as an act of terror. This morning, I met with the President and my fellow members of his national security team to discuss our continuing response.   Although it is not yet clear who executed this attack, whether it was an individual or group, or whether it was carried out with support or involvement from a terrorist organization  either foreign or domestic  we will not rest until the perpetrators are brought to justice.   The FBI is spearheading a multi-agency investigation through the Boston Joint Terrorism Task Force.   They are devoting extensive personnel and assets to this effort  and have already begun conducting exhaustive interviews, analyzing evidence recovered from the scene, and examining video footage for possible leads.   In addition, the ATF is providing bomb technicians, explosives assets, and other substantial investigative support.   The DEA and U.S. Marshals Service are providing further assistance.   And the Office of Justice Programs will coordinate victim support that the City of Boston and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts may request under the Anti-terrorism Emergency Assistance Program.   As our active and comprehensive investigation unfolds, these federal assets are coordinating with prosecutors from the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Massachusetts, the Justice Departments National Security Division, and federal agencies across the government  including members of the Intelligence Community.   This matter is still in the early stages, and its important that we let the investigation run its full course.   I urge members of the public to remain calm, cooperate with law enforcement, and be vigilant.   The FBI has set up a tip line  at 1-800-CALL-FBI  for anyone who has information, images, or details relating to yesterdays explosions along the Boston Marathon route.   We are particularly interested in reviewing video footage captured by bystanders with cell phones or personal cameras near either of the blasts.   In an investigation of this nature, no detail is too small.   Finally, I want to recognize and thank all of the brave law enforcement officials, firefighters, National Guardsmen, medical staff, bystanders, and other first responders in Boston yesterday afternoon who heard the explosions, or received reports of casualties, or saw the shattered glass and rising smoke, and rushed to provide assistance to those in need.   Each of these remarkable women and men placed the safety of others above their own.   Their heroic actions undoubtedly saved lives.   And their stories of courage and selflessness remind us that  even in our darkest moments  the American people have always displayed an extraordinary capacity for resilience.   We will always be strongest when we stand united.   And although today our hearts are broken, my colleagues and I are resolved to bring those responsible for this cowardly act to justice.   We will be relentless in our pursuit of the individual or group that carried out this attack, while staying true to our most sacred values.   And  as our investigation continues, I am confident that our nation will recover, and that wewill emerge from this terrible tragedy not only safer, but stronger, than ever before.