In a speech at a Justice Department ceremony honoring the late Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr., Attorney General Eric Holder said Thursday that the nation must improve police officer safety at the same time that it confronts the sense of mistrust between law enforcement and the communities they serve. As an initial step, the Attorney General called for better reporting of data on both issues, noting that the current level of reporting by localities on both uses of force by policeas well as officer fatalitieswas incomplete.NoneCurrently, federal authorities publish annual figures on the number of justifiable homicides by law enforcement, as well as figures on the number of law enforcement officers killed or assaulted. But since reporting is voluntary, not all police departments participate, causing the figures to be incomplete. In his comments Thursday, the Attorney General urged improving the method for collecting both these sets of data.This would represent a commonsense step that would begin to address serious concerns about police officer safety, as well as the need to safeguard civil liberties, he said.A complete version of the Attorney Generals remarks, as prepared for delivery, appear below:Thank you, Vanita [Gupta], for those kind words  and thank you all for being here. Its a privilege to welcome such a distinguished crowd to the Great Hall for this important observance and on what will be my last opportunity to share it with you as Attorney General. Its a pleasure, as always, to join so many valued colleagues and good friends in paying tribute to the enduring legacy of an extraordinary leader; in celebrating the contributions of a singular figure in our nations history; and in honoring the memory of a lifelong champion for equality, for peace, and for justice: the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.NoneThe remarkable and enduring achievements of the Civil Rights Era  in tearing down segregationist policies, expanding access to the ballot box, and enshrining key protections into law  did nothing less than alter the course of history. The impact of the Movement has been transformative, and its power impossible to measure, over the last five decades. Yet, as weve been reminded all too clearly in recent months  despite this once-unimaginable progress  theres no denying, as we gather for this important commemoration, that a great deal of work remains to be done. Even today, in 2015, our journey is not yet complete. Economic progress remains uneven, educational opportunity is still not uniform, the right to vote is under siege. And we continue to live in a world thats too often divided  a world riven by misunderstanding and despair. A world beset by momentous challenges, old and new. And a world badly in need of the compassion, the inclusion, and the healing that Dr. King stood for, and worked toward, throughout his too-short 39 years.NoneI am mindful, as we come together this morning, that there are few who answer this call to greatness more heroically  and fewer still who make more contributions and sacrifices in the name of public service  than those who stand on the front lines of our fight for public safety: Americas brave men and women in law enforcement.As the brother of a retired police officer, I know in a personal way that these courageous individuals perform their difficult and dangerous jobs with extraordinary valor, compassion, and honor. They serve as steadfast guardians of our rights and liberties  shouldering tremendous and often-unheralded burdens. They incur significant risks in order to keep the rest of us safe. And they are routinely called upon to make split-second decisions to protect themselves and those around them.In short, they are true American heroes  whose patriotism, integrity, and commitment to the highest standards of excellence are simply beyond question. I know this. And I have been troubled and deeply disturbed by recent mischaracterizations of this Administrations regard for those who wear the badge.Over the past six years, our record of support for law enforcement has been both strong and unambiguous. This Justice Department, under my leadership, has taken significant, and in some cases unprecedented, steps to protect and empower our local, state, tribal, and federal law enforcement colleagues. This is simple fact. In 2011, I created an Officer Safety Working Group in response to concerns about officer-directed violence. Through groundbreaking initiatives like VALOR, the Department is providing cutting-edge training to help prevent violence against law enforcement, to improve officer resilience, and to increase survivability during violent encounters. Were currently funding thorough analysis of 2014 officer fatalities, including ambushes and other incidents, so we can mitigate risks going forward. Under our Bulletproof Vest Partnership Program, were helping to provide lifesaving equipment to those who serve on the front lines. And through programs like the Public Safety Officers Benefits Program, were offering our strongest support to brave officers and their loved ones during the toughest of times.As someone who knows firsthand the pride of seeing a family member in uniform  and the anguish that comes with knowing a loved one is in harms way, out patrolling the street  my personal support for those who serve has been steadfast throughout my career. I believe that every law enforcement officer is deserving not merely of our utmost respect, but our deepest gratitude. And thats why last months devastating and barbaric attack  which claimed the lives of two of New Yorks finest, Officers [Wenjian] Liu and [Rafael] Ramos  was so shocking, and so deplorable.NoneThis afternoon, Ill be traveling to Philadelphia to convene the latest in a series of roundtable discussions  with law enforcement leaders, elected officials, community members, young people, and civil rights advocates  in order to keep advancing this dialogue. Over the course of my travels throughout the country, Ive had the chance to discuss these critical issues with Americans of all ages, backgrounds, races, ethnicities, and walks of life  from Atlanta to Cleveland; from Memphis to Chicago.Ive heard from police officers, protesters, faith leaders, and concerned citizens. On many occasions, I have been deeply moved by the stories and perspectives Ive heard  from parents hoping to secure brighter and safer futures for their children; from passionate young people becoming engaged in our national debate; from police officers valiantly putting their lives on the line to make our neighborhoods just a little bit safer.NoneNoneWe can, and we must, examine new ways to do both. The first step to achieving this is to obtain better, more accurate data on the scope of the challenges we face. For instance, Ive heard from a number of people who have called on policymakers to ensure better record-keeping on injuries and deaths that occur at the hands of police. Ive also spoken with law enforcement leaders  including the leadership of the Fraternal Order of Police  who have urged elected officials to consider strategies for collecting better data on officer fatalities. Today, my response to these legitimate concerns is simple: we need to do both.NoneNoneNoneWe owe it to our brave law enforcement officers, to peaceful demonstrators  and, especially, to our youngest citizens  to talk forthrightly about the issues we face, no matter how difficult or complex they may be. We owe it to ourselves and our nation to seek areas of consensus, rather than to exploit old divisions and reopen old wounds. Most of all, we owe it to those who, throughout history, have fought, and sacrificed, and given their lives to bring our country to this moment  from Dr. King and the pioneers of the Civil Rights Era, to Officers Ramos and Liu and the colleagues who carry on their work  to lay aside meaningless grievances. To reject political posturing from those who only demonstrate their interest in front of television cameras. And to do everything in our power to confront the challenges of our time  and find a way to move forward  together.During my visit to Memphis last month, I had the opportunity to tour the National Civil Rights Museum at the Lorraine Motel, where Dr. Kings room is preserved just as it was on April 4, 1968  the night he was taken from us by the very same forces of intolerance against which he had stood throughout his life.I could not help but think, as I stood on that motel balcony, about this great leaders unshakeable belief that promoting love  and condemning all forms of violence  is the only way to cut off the chain of hate.NoneAs we gather today, in the shadow of recent acts of senseless violence, I cannot help but reflect on the lives that have been lost over the past few months  in communities where tragic deaths have exposed rifts between citizens and law enforcement; in New York City, where two brave police officers were murdered because of the uniforms they wore; and in Paris, where heinous and cowardly acts of terror shocked the world and targeted the freedoms we all hold dear.Unfortunately, none of this is new to us. Senseless violence has coursed through the veins of this world for ages. And we have seen, throughout history, that acts of hatred breed only hatred. We understand that words of division only deepen division. And we know that our most serious and systemic challenges continue to demand the very best of us  just as they did in Dr. Kings time.So today, once again, let us not shy away from  but embrace  the noisy discord of honest, frank, and vigorous debate. Never forget  this great nation was born of protest  by residents of this land who took to the streets to demand fairness from those who governed them. Let us never fail to support those who wear the badge, or to work alongside them in building a constructive dialogue  a dialogue founded on our common humanity. Let us act on the crucial recognition that those who serve with honor serve greatly  and they deserve our deepest respect. And let us reject the empty rhetoric of anyone who would engage in cynical attempts to divide and cast blame  choosing instead to affirm once more that Americans from all backgrounds and perspectives must come together to be part of positive change.In this great country  a nation of laws and of high ideals  we have always had the power to forge our own future. Dr. Kings example offers inspiring proof of this fact. And thats why, as our present work unfolds  so long as we continue to rely on the engagement of our citizens, the ongoing commitment of our police officers, and the singular expertise and experience of leaders like you  I believe there is good reason for confidence in where this effort will take us.I want to thank you all, once again, for your dedication to this work. Wherever I am and whatever I am doing, I will always be proud to count you as colleagues and partners in the work of making better the nation that we all love.Thank you for all that you have done these past six years and for all that you will do in the years ahead. 