  WASHINGTON - The United States this week has filed civil injunction lawsuits across the country against seven individuals, the Justice Department announced today. The federal suits  filed in Los Angeles; Panama City, Fla.; Salt Lake City; Nashville, Tenn.; and Pocatello, Idaho  allege that the defendants promote a tax fraud scheme designed to siphon hundreds of millions of dollars from the U.S. Treasury through fraudulent tax refund claims.  Papers filed in the cases say the defendants prepared tax returns requesting a total of $562.4 million in bogus refunds. One defendant  Dick Jenkins, of Heber City, Utah  allegedly holds himself out as a CPA and requested a $210 million fraudulent refund for one customer. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) catches the vast majority of the bogus tax returns and blocks the claimed refunds.  Under the tax fraud scheme, known as the "redemption" or "OID redemption" scheme, participants file a series of false IRS forms, including tax returns, amended returns, and Forms 1099 (including Form 1099-OID) or Forms W-2, to request fraudulent tax refunds based on phony claims of large income tax withholding. According to papers filed in these cases and earlier cases against other alleged scheme promoters, redemption scheme promoters are tax defiers who falsely tell customers that the federal government maintains "secret" accounts of money for its citizens. Promoters claim to be able to help customers access the secret funds by filing the false IRS forms.  Altogether, according to the IRS, redemption scheme participants (including customers of the defendants in the seven lawsuits filed this week) have requested a total of $3.3 trillion in fraudulent refunds.  "The scope of the misconduct alleged in these lawsuits is staggering," said John A. DiCicco, Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Tax Division. "The IRS and Justice Department are working together closely to ensure that those who promote or participate in this large-scale attempted raid on the Treasury face all appropriate civil and criminal sanctions. Anyone who participates in this scheme can expect to not get the claimed refund, face very large civil penalties (up to 20 percent of the false claim), and where appropriate, face criminal prosecution with possible substantial prison sentences if convicted."None  Listed below are details of the seven lawsuits, filed in U.S. District Courts in the cities indicated:  Case  Fraudulent "Refunds" Requested  United States v. Dick Jenkins  Salt Lake City, Utah  $393 million  United States v. Susan Guan  Los Angeles, California  $4.5 million  United States v. Jacqueline Cornejo  Los Angeles, California  $12.1 million  United States v. Evelyn Johnston, et al.  Panama City, Florida  $17.5 million  United States v. Thanh Cao  Los Angeles, California  $34 million  United States v. Penny Jones  Pocatello, Idaho  $93 million  United States v. Karen Miller  Nashville, Tennessee  $8.3 million   TOTAL:  $562.4 millionNoneNone