CHICAGO  The United States today obtained an agreed permanent injunction against a Chicago food processing firm, Triple A Services Inc., and three of its executives after filing a federal lawsuit alleging that Triple As ready-to-eat sandwiches and produce were not being prepared in compliance with federal regulations to protect food against contamination. A consent decree approved today by U.S. District Judge William J. Hibbler prevents the company from distributing any food products, except those that are pre-packaged when they enter its facility and leave in the same unwrapped condition, until it obtains approval from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), which initiated the enforcement action.Triple A Services prepares, processes, packs and distributes ready-to-eat food products that are sold to the public, including through mobile catering services. Also named as defendants were Triple A executives Thomas J. Whennen, chief executive officer; Scott C. Whennen, president; and David A. Frisco, general manager.The lawsuit and decree were announced by Tony West, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Division and Patrick J. Fitzgerald, U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois. The FDA is not aware of any illnesses that have occurred as a result of the allegedly contaminated food products. None The company and its officials have agreed, without further litigation, to cease distribution of certain products until FDA approval is obtained and for agreeing to take other measures such as hiring sanitation and food processing experts to remedy certain deficiencies in its manufacturing process before resuming food processing operations. The violations FDA uncovered in this case posed health and safety risks to consumers, said Assistant Attorney General West. Companies that process the food we eat must comply with the rules that keep us safe or face being shut down. None None None The government is being represented by Assistant U.S. Attorney Donald Lorenzen in the Northern District of Illinois and Trial Attorney Carol Wallack of the Department of Justices Consumer Protection Branch.