  Thank you, Judge [Ricky] Roberts. I appreciate your kind words, and  because weve been friends for so many years  Im especially grateful for the stories you left out.   As always, it is good to be with you and to be among so many leaders I have long admired and continue to rely on.   Yes, Judge [Ann] Williams, I am talking to you, in particular.     Let me also thank Paula Lucas and her team  as well as Judge [Patricia Brown] Holmes and the other members of the Board, Associate Board, and Advisory Committee  for inviting and welcoming me here.   It is a privilege to be part of this years conference and to join you all in discussing the responsibilities that we share  responsibilities to ourselves and our society; to our profession and our predecessors; and, of course, to Americas next generation of law students, attorneys, and jurists.   For nearly two decades, many of you have been coming together  through the Just the Beginning Foundation  to focus on these responsibilities, to find new ways to give back, and, above all, to help our country move forward. The training and educational programs youve developed have improved the strength and integrity of our entire legal system.   And your efforts to honor the service of African Americans in the federal judiciary have helped to ensure that this tradition lives on.      Tonight, together, we have the chance to consider how we can take this work to a new level; and how we will reach back, lift up, and  ultimately  make certain that the progress and achievements we now celebrate continue and grow.   In reaching back into our history, I am reminded of a fact that was perhaps best  if most bluntly  expressed by Justice Thurgood Marshall. None of us, he once said, got where we are solely by pulling ourselves up by our bootstraps.   Thats right. None of us.   In addition to our shared values and vision, we all have one important thing in common. Each of us has walked through a doorway of possibility that the leaders and lawyers who came before us pried open. Today, we continue to move forward, guided by the examples of William Henry Hastie and Benjamin Hooks; of Charles Hamilton Houston, Judge Higginbotham, and Judge Parsons; of the many illustrious African-American jurists, attorneys, and academics who have inspired our nation  as well as the less famous, but no less influential, role models and mentors who have touched our own lives.    NoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNone  Although nearly half a century has passed since Judge Parsons integrated the federal judiciary, less than 9 percent of federal judges are African American. Although minorities account for more than 30 percent of our population, just over 10 percent of Americas lawyers are minorities. That doesnt mean there arent thousands of future minority lawyers out there. It only means that their talents have not yet been shared; their potential has not yet been unleashed.   None  As the words, and the dream, of one of Atlantas great leaders still remind us, Darkness cannot drive out darkness; only light can do that. To me, Dr. King could have been referring to the light of youth. And, for me, its clear that if we help our young people understand the strength of our justice system to right wrong  and assure them that their own skills and talents can shape and improve the course of our entire country  then the darkness that still lingers will soon, and finally, be gone.   On behalf of the entire Department of Justice, I want you all to know how much your efforts to strengthen our nations legal community  and continue our nations hard-won progress  are appreciated. This evening, I also want to tell you about some of the work were doing  in our own house  to promote diversity among our ranks. Through the Diversity Management Initiative that I launched earlier this year, we are actively recruiting the best-qualified employees of all backgrounds. We have assembled a Diversity Management Advisory Council, created a new position  Deputy Associate Attorney General for Diversity Management  and are taking meaningful steps to track and to encourage diversity in every area of our work. By creating a more inclusive Justice Department, I have every expectation that were also becoming a stronger Justice Department.   This year has also brought another Justice Department milestone  and a significant step forward in fulfilling our nations promise of equal access to our justice system. As all of you  especially the judges here  know, we arent where we need to be on this front. Its no exaggeration to say that our indigent defense problem has reached crisis proportions. And its no secret that far too many public defender offices are underfunded and understaffed.   These are systemic problems. And they call for reinvention, not merely reform.   Thats why the Department has made an historic and permanent commitment to expanding and ensuring access to legal services. This spring, we established a new Access to Justice Office, led by Harvard Law Professor Larry Tribe. Through this landmark initiative, we are working to ensure that quality legal representation is available and accessible. And I have no doubt that this effort will enhance our entire justice system.   But if we are to succeed in meeting this goal, the Justice Department cant move forward alone. We need your engagement. And I ask that each of you seek out and seize every opportunity to strengthen our justice system  in your courtrooms, your casework, or through your pro bono activities.      With your help, theres no question that the Justice Department can advance the extraordinary progress thats been made over the last 20 months  to keep our people safe from terrorism and violent crime; to fight fraud and promote fairness in our markets; to improve criminal discovery preparation and policy; to ensure that federal sentencing and corrections policies are fair; to combat hate crimes; and to protect civil rights in our board rooms, voting booths, border areas, and beyond. None   In this work, many of you  and other members of the judiciary  have stepped forward, providing critical guidance and expertise. I look forward to building on our conversations  this evening and in the days ahead  about how we can collaborate more effectively in achieving the goals we share.      By continuing to work together, I believe we can extend the traditions of service that first inspired the creation of this foundation and continue to define our country.   Once again, let me thank you for this opportunity to salute and support your work and to discuss the Justice Departments activities, priorities, and most fundamental responsibilities: ensuring justice and opportunity for all. With your continued support, Im certain that we can  and that we will  deliver on this promise.     Im grateful for your partnership. And I look forward to the work we will continue, the future we will build, and the nation we will surely become.  Thank you.