The Department of Justice announced today that it is returning approximately $1.5 million to Taiwan, the proceeds of the sale of a forfeited New York condominium and a Virginia residence that the United States alleged in its complaint were purchased with the proceeds of bribes paid to the family of Taiwans former President Chen Shui-Bian.Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and Executive Associate Director Peter T. Edge of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) made the announcement.According to the civil forfeiture complaints filed in this case, Yuanta Securities Co. Ltd. paid a bribe of 200 million New Taiwan dollars (equivalent to approximately $6 million USD) to former First Lady Wu Shu-Jen in 2004, during former President Chen Shui-Bians administration. The bribe was allegedly paid to ensure that the president would use his power so that the Taiwan authorities would not oppose Yuantas bid to acquire a financial holding company. The former first family used Hong Kong and Swiss bank accounts, shell companies and a St. Kitts and Nevis trust to transfer the bribe proceeds needed to purchase the properties in Keswick, Virginia, and New York. The properties were owned by the former first family of Taiwan through two limited liability companies. In October 2012, U.S. District Courts in Virginia and in New York entered final forfeiture judgments against these two properties without opposition by the record owners. The United States then sold these two properties and obtained approximately $1.5 million in proceeds, which is being returned to Taiwan.The Kleptocracy Initiative was established to prevent corrupt leaders from using the United States as a safe haven for their ill-gotten gains, said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. We are committed to rooting out foreign official corruption and preventing corrupt officials from enjoying their spoils in the United States. We appreciate the cooperation of Taiwan law enforcement in this matter.After many years of collaborative work, we are happy to return these funds to their rightful owners, said Executive Associate Director Edge. This is part of an ongoing effort by HSI to identify and seize illegal assets in the United States obtained by corrupt foreign leaders who abuse our financial systems in order to conceal the illicit proceeds of their crimes. HSI special agents in our 62 offices in 43 countries will continue to work with our domestic offices and international law enforcement partners to hold these individuals accountable.ICE-HSI investigated the case, with assistance from the agencys attach in Hong Kong, HSI Miami's Foreign Corruption Investigation Group and the Taiwan Supreme Prosecutors Offices Special Investigations Division. Trial Attorney Jennifer Wallis and former Deputy Chief Linda Samuel of the Criminal Divisions Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section (AFMLS) prosecuted the case. The Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs also provided valuable assistance.NoneHSIs Foreign Corruption Investigations Group targets corrupt foreign officials around the world who attempt to utilize U.S. financial institutions to launder illicit funds. The group conducts investigations into the laundering of proceeds emanating from foreign public corruption, bribery or embezzlement. The objective is to prevent foreign derived ill-gotten gains from entering the U.S. financial infrastructure, to seize identified assets in the United States and repatriate these funds on behalf of those affected.