  The Department of Justice Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) today announced funding awards to 263 cities and counties, aimed at creating 937 law enforcement positions. More than $125 million will be awarded nationally, including nearly $45 million to fund 356 new school resource officer positions.  The list of this years grantees includes Oakland, Sacramento, and Alameda County, Calif.; Houston; Hartford, Conn.; Des Moines, Iowa; Milwaukee; Richland County and Charleston, S.C.; Louisville, Ky.; Akron, Ohio; Seattle, and more.  In the wake of past tragedies, it's clear that we need to be willing to take all possible steps to ensure that our kids are safe when they go to school, said Attorney General Eric Holder. These critical investments represent the Justice Department's latest effort to strengthen key law enforcement capabilities, and to provide communities with the resources they need to protect our young people. Especially in a time of increased challenges and limited budgets, our top priority must always be the safety and well-being of our children.  The COPS Office is pleased to assist local law enforcement agencies throughout the country address their most critical public safety issues, said Joshua Ederheimer, Acting Director of the COPS Office. Funding from this years program will allow many cities and counties to apply new sworn personnel to issues related to violent crime, property crime and school safety.  The COPS Hiring Program offers grants to state, local and tribal law enforcement agencies to hire or rehire community policing officers. The program provides the salary and benefits for officer and deputy hires for three years.  Grantees for the 2013 hiring program were selected based on their fiscal needs, local crime rates, and their community policing plans. There was an additional focus this year on agencies requesting assistance in developing school safety programs that would include the hiring of a school resource officer. School resource officer positions funded by the COPS Office are sworn law enforcement positions that work within a school district or facility, interacting directly with school administrators and students.  The Administration put a focus on school safety at the start of this year and weve worked to coordinate a program that offers valuable resources to assist local law enforcement in these efforts and many others, said Acting Director Ederheimer.  The COPS Office is a federal agency responsible for advancing community policing nationwide. Since 1995, COPS has awarded over $14 billion to advance community policing, including grants awarded to more than 13,000 state, local and tribal law enforcement agencies to fund the hiring and redeployment of approximately 125,000 officers and provide a variety of knowledge resource products including publications, training and technical assistance.  For the entire list of grantees and additional information about the 2013 COPS Hiring Program, visit the COPS website at www.cops.usdoj.gov. 