A federal grand jury has returned a superseding indictment charging 10 defendants with conspiring to participate in a violent racketeering enterprise known as Trained To Go (TTG). The superseding indictment, which was returned on June 30, 2017 and unsealed today, charges 10 alleged TTG gang members and TTG associates with conspiring to violate federal racketeering and drug trafficking laws. Four defendants are also charged with committing murder in aid of racketeering. Twelve defendants, including all 10 defendants charged in the RICO count, are also charged with conspiracy to distribute and possession with intent to distribute heroin, cocaine, and marijuana. Four defendants are charged with distribution and possession with intent to distribute heroin; two are charged with possession of a firearm in furtherance of a drug trafficking crime and with possession of a firearm by a felon.  The indictment was announced by Acting Assistant Attorney General Kenneth A. Blanco of the Justice Departments Criminal Division; Acting U.S. Attorney for the District of Maryland Stephen M. Schenning; Special Agent in Charge Gordon B. Johnson of the FBIs Baltimore Field Office; Commissioner Kevin Davis of the Baltimore Police Department; and Special Agent in Charge Daniel L. Board Jr. of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives - Baltimore Field Division. According to the ten-count indictment, the defendants are members of Trained To Go (TTG), a criminal organization whose members engaged in drug distribution and acts of violence involving murder, kidnapping, assault, robbery, and witness intimidation. TTG operated in the Sandtown neighborhood of West Baltimore. Members and associates of TTG sold narcotics, including heroin, cocaine, and marijuana, and worked to defend their exclusive right to control who sold narcotics in TTG territory. The murders, assaults, and kidnappings included that of rival gang members, rival drug dealers, and individuals cooperating with law enforcement, as well as engaging in murder-for-hire schemes. As part of the conspiracy, each defendant agreed that a conspirator would commit at least two acts of racketeering activity for TTG. The investigation was conducted by the FBI Baltimore Safe Streets Violent Gang Task Force, which included five Baltimore City Police Officers. The following defendants, all of Baltimore, are charged in the indictment unsealed today: Montana Barronette, a/k/a Tana, and Tanner, age 22;Terrell Sivells, a/k/a Rell, age 26;John Harrison, a/k/a Binkie, age 27;Taurus Tillman, a/k/a Tash, age 28;Linton Broughton, a/k/a Marty, age 24; Dennis Pulley, a/k/a Denmo, age 30;Roger Taylor, a/k/a Milk, age 26;Brandon Wilson, a/k/a Ali, age 23; Brandon Bazemore, a/k/a Man Man, age 24; Timothy Floyd, a/k/a Tim Rod, age 27Hisaun Chatman, age 31; and James Woodfolk, age 20. The indictment alleges that between May 20, 2010 and May 25, 2016, the defendants committed acts of violence, including 10 murders, and one non-fatal shooting. The violent acts were intended to further the gangs activities, including intimidating witnesses to prevent them from cooperating with law enforcement, protecting the gangs drug territory, and for the purpose of maintaining and increasing their position within the organization.  Ten defendants have been detained, one defendant is under supervision with pretrial services and the whereabouts of Roger Taylor are unknown.  Anyone who may have information on the whereabouts of Roger Taylor is asked to contact the FBI- Baltimore Field office at (410) 265-8080. FBI Baltimore Safe Streets Violent Gang Task Force is responsible for identifying and targeting the most violent gangs in the Baltimore metropolitan area. The squad utilizes drug and violent crime investigations to address gang violence and the associated homicides in Baltimore, MD. The vision of the program is to use the Enterprise Theory of Investigation (ETI), through criminal and civil provisions of RICO Act and in accordance with the FBI and Department of justice national strategies, to disrupt and dismantle significant violent criminal threats and criminal enterprises affecting the safety and well-being of our citizens and our communities. The FBI Baltimore Violent Crimes Gangs Task Force includes FBI special agents and task force officers from the Baltimore, Baltimore County and Anne Arundel County Police Departments. An indictment is not a finding of guilt. An individual charged by indictment is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty at some later criminal proceedings.  The case was investigated by the FBI, Baltimore City Police Department, and the ATF. The prosecution was handled by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Matt Sullivan, Christopher J. Romano and Daniel Gardener, and Trial Attorney John C. Hanley of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section.