Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch announced today that the Justice Department collected more than $15.3 billion in civil and criminal actions in fiscal year (FY) 2016 ending Sept. 30, 2016. The $15,380,130,434 in collections in FY 2016 represents more than five times the approximately $3 billion appropriated budget for the 94 U.S. Attorneys offices and the main litigating divisions of the Justice Department combined in that same period.Every day, the men and women of the Department of Justice work tirelessly to enforce our laws, ensuring that taxpayer dollars are used properly and that the American people are protected from exploitation and abuse, said Attorney General Lynch. Todays announcement is a testament to that work, and it makes clear that our actions deliver a significant return on public investment. I want to thank the prosecutors and trial attorneys who made this years collections possible, and I want to emphasize that the department remains committed to the well-being of our people and our nation.Civil collections account for more than $12 billion of the total collected and were from affirmative civil enforcement cases, in which the United States recovered government money lost to fraud or other misconduct or collected fines imposed on individuals and/or corporations for violations of federal health, safety, mortgage, financial, civil rights or environmental laws. In addition, civil debts were collected on behalf of several federal agencies, including the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), Health and Human Services, Internal Revenue Service, Small Business Administration and Department of Education.NoneNoneNoneNoneNoneThe total includes all monies collected as a result of Justice Department-led enforcement actions and negotiated civil settlements. It includes more than $12 billion in payments made directly to the Justice Department, and more than $3.3 billion in indirect payments made to other federal agencies, states and other designated recipients.In measuring collections recovered in FY 2016, this figure necessarily includes some cases that were resolved in previous years but the proceeds of which were collected in FY 2016. 