  WASHINGTON  At a Chicago summit highlighting a new high-tech war against health care fraud, Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Kathleen Sebelius and Attorney General Eric Holder today discussed how the Affordable Care Act and the Obama Administrations Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT) are helping fight Medicare fraud. The Chicago summit is the seventh regional health care fraud prevention summit hosted by the Department of Justice and HHS.  The regional summits bring together a wide array of public and private partners, and are part of the HEAT partnership between HHS and the Department of Justice to prevent and combat health care fraud. The Obama Administrations HEAT efforts have resulted in record-breaking health care fraud recoveries. In fiscal year 2011, for the second year in a row, the departments anti-fraud activities resulted in more than $4 billion in recoveries, an all-time high.  This Administration continues to move aggressively in protecting patients and consumers and bringing health care fraud criminals to justice, said Attorney General Holder. Through HEAT, we have achieved unprecedented, record-breaking successes in combating health care fraud and as a result of the Affordable Care Act, we have additional critical resources, tools and authorities to continue this great success.  We have a simple message to criminals thinking about committing Medicare fraud: dont even try, said Secretary Sebelius. Thanks to health reform and our Administrations work, we have new tools and resources to catch criminals and stop Medicare fraud before it happens.  New tools provided by the Affordable Care Act are strengthening the Obama Administrations efforts to fight health care fraud. As a result of Affordable Care Act provisions:None  Increased collaboration has yielded significant results through the HEAT partnership. Since the creation of HEAT in 2009, the Medicare Fraud Strike Force operations have expanded from two to nine locations throughout the United States, including Chicago. Strike force operations expanded to Chicago in February 2011 and since that time, charges have been filed against more than 35 defendants in the Northern District of Illinois for offenses related to health care fraud. Overall, in fiscal year 2011, strike force operations in nine locations charged a total of more than 320 defendants for allegedly billing more than $1 billion in false claims.  In February 2012, as a result of HEAT and strike force actions, a Dallas-area physician and the office manager of his medical practice, along with five owners of home health agencies, were arrested on charges related to their alleged participation in a nearly $375 million health care scheme involving fraudulent claims for home health services. In conjunction with this action, CMS imposed payment suspensions against 78 home health agencies in the Dallas area.  Today, the Obama Administration also announced more progress from its anti-fraud efforts, beyond the nearly $4.1 billion recovered last year: