With tax season in full swing, the Justice Department urged the public today to avoid dishonest tax-return preparers who fleece their customers and illegally drain the U.S. Treasury. Noting that every taxpayer is ultimately responsible for the contents of his or her own return, Acting Assistant Attorney General Caroline D. Ciraolo of the Tax Division also warned the public to be wary of anyone who guarantees a refund or who claims to sell a sure-fire way to reduce your taxes.Dishonest Return Preparers Cost Their Clients and the United StatesNoneEvery year, thousands of federal income tax returns are prepared by people who care much more about making a quick buck than about preparing accurate returns, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Ciraolo. Most tax return preparers are honest. But some preparers who charge clients a percentage of their tax refund intentionally prepare false returns to increase their clients refund, and thus their own fees. Likewise, some preparers who charge by the form will intentionally prepare incorrect forms that their clients dont need in order to increase their compensation. Taxpayers might think that theyre getting a good deal on their taxes, or that as long as someone else prepares the return, theyre not responsible. Theyre wrong. Taxpayers who have their return prepared incorrectly are required to pay the tax they owe, or pay back the refund they werent entitled to get. These clients might also owe interest and penalties, which can be substantial. Fortunately, there are red flags that taxpayers can look for and avoid when choosing a return preparer.Your refund should never be deposited directly into a preparers bank account.NoneNever sign a blank return or a blank form, or sign a return or a form without reading it first.NoneDont use a preparer who mischaracterizes your expenses.NoneDo not use a preparer who fabricates business expenses or deductions, or who claims bogus credits to which you are not entitled, such as the Earned Income Tax Credit, the child care credit, or the education credit.NoneSome other fraudulent schemes and practices that have been stopped through injunction orders entered by federal courts throughout the country include:NoneNoneTax Division Sues to Shut Down Promoters of Fraudulent Tax SchemesIn addition to return preparers who deliberately falsify returns, the Tax Division targets those who peddle schemes that purportedly reduce taxesbut in fact rely on false statements or financial sleight-of-hand.NoneNoneNoneThe Tax Division is committed to stopping those who promote fraudulent tax shelters and other schemes or who prepare false returns, Acting Assistant Attorney General Ciraolo said. Along with our colleagues at the IRS, we will find dishonest preparers and fraudulent tax-scheme promoters and work to shut them down. We will hold accountable those who willfully assist taxpayers to file false returns. And in appropriate cases, we will prosecute them. But everyone can help stop fraud and protect our public finances. Pay attention to your tax return and make sure that its right. If you think that a tax return preparer is deliberately preparing incorrect returns, or you suspect someone is selling a phony tax-loss scheme, report that person to the IRS.NoneNone