None None   This resolution of criminal allegations and civil claims against Transocean brings us one significant step closer to justice for the human, environmental and economic devastation wrought by the Deepwater Horizon disaster, said Attorney General Eric Holder.   This agreement holds Transocean criminally accountable for its conduct and provides nearly a billion dollars in criminal and civil penalties for the benefit of the Gulf states.   I am particularly grateful today to the many Justice Department personnel and federal investigative agency partners for the hard work that led to todays resolution and their continuing pursuit of justice for the people of the Gulf.      Todays announced settlement will aid the Gulf regions recovery from the Deepwater Horizon oil spill and require Transocean to take important steps that will help guard against such incidents happening in the future, said Acting Associate Attorney General Tony West. This resolution is the culmination of the tremendous efforts of many attorneys and staff in the Justice Departments Criminal, Civil and Environment and Natural Resources Divisions  dedicated public servants whose hard work continues on behalf of the American people.  Transoceans rig crew accepted the direction of BP well site leaders to proceed in the face of clear danger signs  at a tragic cost to many of them, said Lanny A. Breuer, Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Criminal Division. Transoceans agreement to plead guilty to a federal crime, and to pay a total of $1.4 billion in criminal and civil penalties, appropriately reflects its role in the Deepwater Horizon disaster.None   Todays settlement and plea agreement is an important step toward holding Transocean and those responsible for the Deepwater Horizon disaster accountable, said Cynthia Giles, Assistant Administrator for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agencys (EPA) Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance.   EPA will continue to work with DOJ and its federal partners to vigorously pursue the governments claims against all responsible parties and ensure that we are taking every possible step to restore and protect the Gulf Coast ecosystem. None None     The civil settlement secures $1 billion in civil penalties for violations of the CWA, a record amount that significantly exceeds last years $70 million civil penalty paid by MOEX Offshore 2007 LLC, a 10 percent partner with BP in the Macondo well venture.   The unprecedented $1 billion civil penalty is subject to the   Resources and Ecosystems Sustainability, Tourist Opportunities and Revived Economies of the Gulf Coast States Act of 2012 (Restore Act), which provides that 80 percent of the penalty will be to be used to fund projects in and for the Gulf states for the environmental and economic benefit of the region.   This civil resolution reserves claims for natural resource damages and clean-up costs.     Under the civil settlement, the Transocean defendants must also observe various court-enforceable strictures in its drilling operations, aimed at reducing the chances of another blowout and discharge of oil and at improving emergency response capabilities.   Examples of these requirements include certifications of maintenance and repair of blowout preventers before each new drilling job, consideration of process safety risks, and personnel training related to oil spills and responses to other emergencies.   These measures apply to all rigs operated or owned by the Transocean defendants in all U.S. waters and will be in place for at least five years.   The guilty plea agreement and criminal charge announced today are part of the ongoing criminal investigation by the Deepwater Horizon Task Force into matters related to the April 2010 Gulf oil spill.   The Deepwater Horizon Task Force, based in New Orleans, is supervised by Assistant Attorney General Breuer and led by Deputy Assistant Attorney General John D. Buretta, who serves as the director of the task force.   The task force includes prosecutors from the Criminal Division and the Environment and Natural Resources Division of the Department of Justice; the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of Louisiana, as well as other U.S. Attorneys Offices; and investigating agents from the FBI, EPA, Department of the Interior, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Office of Law Enforcement, U.S. Coast Guard, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality. None   The criminal case against Transocean is being prosecuted by Deepwater Horizon Task Force Deputy Directors Derek A. Cohen and Avi Gesser, and task force prosecutors Richard R. Pickens II, Scott M. Cullen, Colin Black and Rohan Virginkar.   Numerous Environment Division and Civil Division lawyers are pursuing the civil enforcement action, led by Steve ORourke and R. Michael Underhill.   An information is merely a charge and a defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. NoneNoneNone