An insurance salesman and former resident of Parma, Ohio was convicted today following a five-day jury trial of fifteen counts of willful failure to pay income taxes and five counts of willful failure to file income tax returns, announced Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Caroline D. Ciraolo, head of the Justice Departments Tax Division; U.S. Attorney Carole S. Rendon for the Northern District of Ohio; and Acting Special Agent in Charge Troy N. Stemen for the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Criminal Investigation, Cincinnati Field Office.According to the evidence presented at trial, John Christopher Raschella, 57, currently a resident of Estero, Florida, failed to pay more than $1 million in income taxes, interest and penalties that he owed to the IRS for 1995, 1996, and 1998 through 2012. During those years, Raschella sold insurance, and earned additional income working for other insurance salesmen.Between 1989 and 2012, Raschella failed to timely file income tax returns to report his income to the IRS. For several years, Raschella filed delinquent income tax returns on which he reported that he owed taxes, but failed to make the required payments. For other years, the IRS assessed Raschellas taxes and sent him letters notifying him of the amount owed, but Raschella still failed to pay. The governments evidence also demonstrated that between 2010 and 2012, Raschella filed numerous false tax returns on which he, among other falsities, underreported his income and claimed deductions for alimony that he had not paid.NoneNoneRaschella successfully assigned his insurance commission to Resource One in 2005, which resulted in the insurance company that he sold insurance for issuing a Form 1099-MISC to the company instead of to Raschella individually. The insurance company revoked the assignment after learning that Raschella had made false statements to a county government agency regarding the fact that Resource One was his company. Raschella also hired an individual in Texas who submitted a fraudulent levy release to the insurance company on his behalf. This document was created to appear as if it was issued by the IRS, when, in fact, it was sent by the individual in Texas. The fraudulent document resulted in the insurance company substantially reducing the amount of Raschellas insurance commissions that it was paying over to the IRS in response to a levy.John Raschella willfully failed to pay more than $1 million in income taxes, interest and penalties, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Ciraolo. The jurys verdict makes clear that dishonest taxpayers who fail to file returns and pay their fair share of taxes cannot escape responsibility for their illegal conduct.Whileno one looks forward to paying taxes, it is our obligation as citizens, said U.S. Attorney Rendon. The jury found this defendant willingly and fraudulently shirked his responsibility.Convictions, like the one returned against Mr. Raschella today, send a clear message that those who willfully defy the tax laws will be fully investigated, prosecuted, and subjected to the full punishment of the law for their actions, said Chief Richard Weber of IRS-Criminal Investigation. The overarching principle of IRSs enforcement strategy is to protect the integrity of the tax system by ensuring everyone pays the right amount of tax. The IRS and Department of Justice remain determined and vigilant in ferreting out such schemes to cheat the honest taxpayers.NoneU.S. District Judge Dan Aaron Polster set sentencing for April 13, 2017. Raschella faces a statutory maximum sentence of one year in prison for each willful failure to pay and willful failure to file conviction. He also faces a period of supervised release, restitution and monetary penalties.Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Ciraolo, U.S. Attorney Rendon and Acting Special Agent in Charge Stemen thanked agents of IRSCriminal Investigation, who conducted the investigation, and Trial Attorneys Melissa S. Siskind and Jeffrey A. McLellan of the Tax Division, who prosecuted the case. They also thanked Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert J. Patton of the Northern District of Ohio who provided substantial assistance in this prosecution.None