  Walter Lee Williams, a former university professor, has been indicted for allegedly engaging in sexual conduct with minors and producing child pornography, Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and Assistant Director Ronald T. Hosko of the FBI Criminal Investigative Division announced today.  Today, the FBI added Williams to its Ten Most Wanted Fugitives list, making him the 500th addition to the list.None  Williams is a 64-year-old White male. He is 59, weighs approximately 180 pounds and has grayish-brown hair and brown eyes. Williams has previously resided in Palm Springs, Calif., and he was affiliated with a religious organization known as the Buddhist Universal Association in Los Angeles. Williams has an extensive history of travel throughout the Southeast Asia region, specifically the Philippines. He has reportedly resided in Indonesia, Polynesia and Thailand. Williams is also alleged to have owned property in Thailand. He may also travel to Mexico and Peru.  The FBI is offering a reward of up to $100,000 for information leading directly to the arrest of this subject, the newest addition to the Ten Most Wanted Fugitives list. This is an ongoing investigation.  Trial Attorneys Michael Grant and Herbrina Sanders from the Criminal Divisions Child Exploitation and Obscenity Section (CEOS) are prosecuting this case. The FBI Los Angeles field office is investigating the case.  The charges contained in the indictment are merely accusations, and the defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.  This case was brought as part of Project Safe Childhood, a nationwide initiative to combat the growing epidemic of child sexual exploitation and abuse, launched in May 2006 by the Department of Justice. Led by U.S. Attorneys offices and CEOS, Project Safe Childhood marshals federal, state and local resources to better locate, apprehend and prosecute individuals who exploit children via the Internet, as well as to identify and rescue victims. For more information about Project Safe Childhood, please visit www.projectsafechildhood.gov.