None These payments mark the single largest distribution of forfeited funds in the history of the Departments victim compensation program. Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein, Acting U.S. Attorney Joon H. Kim for the Southern District of New York and Assistant Director in Charge William F. Sweeney Jr., of the FBIs New York Field Division made the announcement. Thanks to civil asset forfeiture, the Department of Justice is announcing today the record-setting distribution of restitution to victims of Bernard Madoffs notorious investment fraud scheme, said Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein. We have recovered billions of dollars from third parties  not Mr. Madoff  and are now returning that money to tens of thousands of victims. This is the largest restoration of forfeited property in history. Bernie Madoff committed one of historys largest and most devastating frauds, said Acting U.S. Attorney Kim. This Office not only prosecuted Madoff himself and others who helped perpetrate his fraud, but has remained committed to recovering money for his victims. To date, this Office has recovered more than $9 billion for the innocent victims of Madoffs fraud, and todays distribution of $770 million, the single largest distribution of forfeited funds in the Departments history is part of our ongoing commitment to not only prosecute criminals but also find relief for victims. No amount of money in the world could ever reverse the catastrophic effects Madoffs historic Ponzi scheme had on individuals and businesses alike, Assistant Director in Charge Sweeney. But now, nearly a decade after this crime was exposed, it is our hope that victims will finally be able to see the light at the end of a long, dark tunnel. None Of the approximately $4.05 billion that will be made available to victims, approximately $2.2 billion was collected as part of the historic civil forfeiture recovery from the estate of deceased Madoff investor Jeffry Picower. An additional $1.7 billion was collected as part of a Deferred Prosecution Agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A. and civilly forfeited in a parallel action. The remaining funds were collected through a civil forfeiture action against investor Carl Shapiro and his family, and from civil and criminal forfeiture actions against Bernard L. Madoff, Peter B. Madoff and their co-conspirators.  None None 