The U.S. District Court for the District of Maine entered a consent decree of permanent injunction againstHancock, Maine-based Mill Stream Corporation (doing business as Sullivan Harbor Farm) and its owner, Ira J. (Joel) Frantzman, toprevent the distribution of adulterated seafood products, the Department of Justice announced today.The department filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the District of Maine at the request of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), alleging that the defendants seafood products are adulterated in that they have beenprepared, packed, or held under insanitary conditions whereby the products may have become contaminated with filth or have been rendered injurious to health.The failure to plan for and control thepresence of bacteria and neurotoxins commonly found in seafood-processing facilities can pose a significant risk to the public health, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer, head of the Justice Departments Civil Division. The Department of Justice will continue to work aggressively with FDA to prevent the distribution of adulterated food.The complaint alleges that the defendants prepare, process, pack, hold, and distribute refrigerated, vacuum-packed, ready-to-eat, cold and hot smoked fish or fishery products, such as smoked salmon, trout and char, for distribution to cities across the country, including Boston, Massachusetts, and Washington, D.C. The complaint also alleges that Frantzman is Mill Streams owner and has the authority and responsibility to prevent and correct the violations of federal law at the company.In conjunction with the filing of the complaint, the defendants agreed to settle the case and be bound by a consent decree of permanent injunction that requires the defendants to cease all manufacturing operations and provides that, in order for defendants toresume distributing their products,FDA first must determine that the defendants manufacturing practices comply with thefederal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (FDCA).NoneThe complaint also alleges that FDA documented insanitary conditions at the defendants facility in violation of cGMP requirements. FDA investigators observed, among other things, rodent excreta pellets too numerous to count in the area of the facility where smoker trays arecleaned, apparent black mold and water staining on the doorframe of the walk-in freezerwherefish is stored, an open rack of salmon stored beneath a pipe with frozen condensate build-up, and water splashing from the processing floor onto a cutting board and into bins where fish is stored.NoneThe complaint alleges that, for more than a decade, FDArepeatedly warned the defendants about HACCP and cGMP violations at the defendants facility. The complaint also alleges that FDA communicated these warnings throughregulatory meetings, teleconferences, an Administrative Detention Order, Lists of Inspectional Observations and aWarning Letter. Yet, the complaint alleges, FDA continued to observeHACCP and cGMP violations atthe defendantsfacility.The government is represented by Trial Attorney Thomas E. Ross of the Civil Divisions Consumer Protection Branch and Andrew K.Lizotte of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Maine, with the assistance of Associate Chief Counsel Yen Hoang of the Department of Health and Human Services Office of General Counsel  Food and Drug Division.