9,000 Identities Stolen from the U.S. Army, Alabama State Agencies and Georgia CompaniesA resident of Newnan, Georgia, was sentenced today to prison for her role as the ringleader of a $24 million stolen identity tax refund fraud (SIRF) conspiracy, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Caroline D. Ciraolo of the Justice Departments Tax Division and U.S. Attorney George L. Beck Jr. of the Middle District of Alabama.Keisha Lanier was sentenced by U.S. District Court Judge Kristi K. DuBose of the Southern District of Alabama to serve 15 years in prison to be followed by three years of supervised release and ordered to forfeit $5,811,406. She was also detained following the sentencing hearing. On May 19, Tamika Floyd, a defendant in a related case, was sentenced to serve 87 months in prison. On June 25, Tamaica Hoskins, a co-defendant charged in the same indictment, was sentenced to serve 145 months in prison. And on Aug. 7, the following sentences were imposed on Laniers other co-defendants:Todays sentence brings to a close an extensive criminal network led by Keisha Lanier and designed to victimize U.S. citizens and defraud the U.S. Treasury of over $20 million in fraudulent refund claims, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Ciraolo. The substantial sentences imposed on Ms. Lanier and her co-defendants send a clear message that those who chose to engage in such criminal conduct will pay a very heavy price.According to information in court documents and at the sentencing hearings, between January 2011 and December 2013, Lanier and Tracy Mitchell led a large-scale identity theft ring in which Lanier, Tracy Mitchell and their co-defendants filed more than 9,000 false individual federal income tax returns that claimed more than $24 million in fraudulent claims for tax refunds. The IRS paid out close to $10 million in refunds on these fraudulent claims. The defendants obtained the stolen identities from various sources, including from the U.S. Army, several Alabama state agencies, a Georgia call center and employee records from a Georgia company. Mitchell worked at the hospital located at Fort Benning, Georgia, where she had access to the identification data of military personnel, including soldiers who were deployed to Afghanistan. She stole the personal information of soldiers and used that information to file false tax returns.Todays sentencing of Keisha Lanier, who conspired with others to use the identities of American service members and hospital patients to enrich themselves by stealing tax refunds, demonstrates the depths of how far criminals will stoop and the extent to which IRS-CI will go to fight identity theft, said Chief Richard Weber of IRS-Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI). We will use every available resource in collaboration with our law enforcement partners to combat these serious crimes.This sentencing demonstrates our firm commitment to hold accountable those who commit fraud or otherwise steal from our government, said Director Daniel Andrews of the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Commands (CID) Computer Crime Investigative Unit. Special agents from our Computer Crime Investigative Unit, along with our federal law enforcement counterparts, are unwavering in our commitment to seek out and hold responsible all those who conduct criminal activity against the United States Army and the American taxpayer.Floyd stole personal information from two Alabama state agencies and provided those names to Lanier. Lanier provided those names to Tracy Mitchell, Latasha Mitchell, Paige and others to file false tax returns. Lanier also obtained stolen identities from the Alabama Department of Corrections. Paige and Taylor worked in a call center for a payment-processing company in Columbus and stole identities. Paige, in turn, used those identities to file false tax returns, some of which he filed from Tracy Mitchells residence. Tracy and Latasha Mitchell also obtained employee files from a Columbus company and used those identities to file false tax returns.To file the false tax returns, the defendants obtained several IRS Electronic Filing Numbers in the names of sham tax businesses. On behalf of those sham tax businesses, the defendants applied for bank products from various financial institutions. Under the guise of a legitimate business account, the institutions mailed blank check stock to the defendants homes. The defendants directed the IRS to pay anticipated tax refunds to prepaid debit cards, in U.S. Treasury checks and to financial institutions, which in turn issued the tax refunds via prepaid debit cards or checks. When the refunds were sent through the financial institutions, the defendants simply printed out the refund checks from the check stock that had been sent to their homes.After a period of time, the financial institutions stopped permitting the defendants to print out the tax refund checks. To continue the scheme, Tracy Mitchell and members of her family recruited U.S. Postal Service employees. The corrupt postal employees specified addresses along their postal routes to have the U.S. Treasury checks mailed, then obtained those checks and turned them over to the defendants for a fee.The scheme also involved a complex money laundering operation. Nearly $10 million in fraudulent tax refund checks were cashed at several businesses located in Alabama, Georgia and Kentucky. To coordinate this massive check cashing scheme, the defendants communicated using text messages and maintained detailed records. For instance, Sharondra Johnson worked at the Walmart money center in Columbus, where she cashed checks for customers as part of her job. Dameisha Mitchell recruited Sharondra Johnson to cash tax refund checks that were fraudulently issued in the names of other individuals. Sharondra Johnson agreed to cash the checks and communicated with Dameisha and Tracy Mitchell via text messages. In an attempt to conceal the crime from Walmart, the defendants had multiple individuals deliver the tax refund checks to Johnson for her to cash them.At sentencing, the government offered victim impact statements from several individuals whose identities were stolen, from family members, and from companies and governmental agencies where the identity theft breaches occurred. One agency representative noted that the identity theft was not only devastating financially, but that it also impaired the agencys ability to serve the residents of this state. The mother of a U.S. Army soldier whose identity was stolen submitted a statement describing the consequences of the fraud on her and her family:While [my son] was fighting for our country and all back home[,] I received a very disturbing phone call from [an] Agent [] from the IRS that my son[,] while at Ft. Benning training to defend our country[,] the land of the free[,] had his identity stolen and fraudulent tax returns were filed with his social security number. This news was devastating to think that my [] 19-year-old son[,] who was defending the very freedom this country stands [for] [,] was wronged by one of those people [he] was willing to die for. My whole family could not believe what was happening. We now had to worry about this terrible act by one of our own. As I tried my best to keep composed and handle all of the gruesome mounds of paperwork to get this straightened out with the IRS, [my son] was then denied his tax refund. This created a financial hardship on [him]. We were too afraid to tell [him] while he was deployed because we did not want to worry him and we wanted him to focus only on getting home alive and not have to worry about such an atrocious act by someone who did not even know [him].No sentence is too strong for those who prey on our fighting men and women, said U.S. Attorney Beck Jr. War is hell on the home front, too, and the family left behind holding things together must be strongly protected.Acting Assistant Attorney General Ciraolo and U.S. Attorney Beck Jr. commended special agents of the IRS-Criminal Investigation and the U.S. Army-CID, who investigated the case, and Trial Attorneys Michael C. Boteler and Gregory P. Bailey of the Tax Division and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Todd A. Brown, Jonathan S. Ross and Kevin P. Davidson of the Middle District of Alabama, who prosecuted the case. Ciraolo and Beck Jr. also thanked the U.S. Attorneys Office of the Middle District of Georgia for their assistance in the case.