  Three members of the violent gang known as the Almighty Latin King and Queen Nation (ALKQN)were sentenced today for their participation in narcotics and weapons trafficking.  Hiluterio Chavez, aka "Zeus," 33, of Chicago, was sentenced today to 87 months in prison by U.S. District Judge Sam R. Cummings of the Northern District of Texas, Lubbock Division. Chavez pleaded guilty on May 14, 2009, to a superseding indictment charging him with being a convicted felon in possession of firearms, possession of stolen firearms and conspiring to engage in the business of dealing in firearms.  Guerrero Olivas, aka "Screech," 26, of Big Spring, Texas, was sentenced today to 210 months in prison by Judge Cummings. Olivas pleaded guilty on May 29, 2009, to a superseding indictment charging him with conspiring to distribute and possess with intent to distribute five kilograms or more of cocaine and 100 kilograms or more of marijuana.  Eliseo Perez, aka "Wicked," 28, of Mission, Texas, was sentenced today to 188 months in prison by Judge Cummings. Perez pleaded guilty on May 14, 2009, to a superseding indictment charging him with conspiring to distribute and possess with intent to distribute five kilograms or more of cocaine and 100 kilograms or more of marijuana.  According to documents filed in court, Olivas and Perez admitted that they were members of a conspiracy that included Luis Nava, aka "Flaco"; Jose Robledo Nava, aka "Chino"; Reynaldo Nava, aka "Rat"; Robert Allen Ramirez, aka "Nesyo"; Marie Chavez, aka "Shorty"; Carol Ann Rivas Nava; Cecily Dominique Juarez; Jesus Martinez, aka "Solid"; David Hellums, aka "Cutthroat"; James Johnathan Cole, aka "Blitz;"; Eduardo Daniel Mares, aka "Pitt;" Gabriel Lee Gonzales; Michael Conde, aka "Psycho"; John Guzman, and others, and that from 2001 until December 2008, they directly or indirectly agreed to distribute, and possess with intent to distribute, cocaine and marijuana.  Olivas and Perez admitted that the overall scope of the conspiracy involved at least five kilograms of cocaine and 100 kilograms of marijuana. Olivas and Perez further admitted that they and their co-defendants intentionally and knowingly possessed with the intent to distribute cocaine and marijuana and distributed cocaine and marijuana to others. According to the indictment, they acquired the cocaine and marijuana from Mexico and brought it to the South Texas region, where it was packaged, stored, and transported to Big Spring, Lubbock and Midland for further distribution.  During part of the time of the conspiracy, in mid-July 2005, defendant Hiluterio Chavez conspired with others to deal in firearms. Chavez admitted that he organized, managed, and arranged for the acquisition of firearms throughout the Northern District of Texas, and that he would transport firearms within the Northern District of Texas. Court documents filed in the case indicate that the defendants illegally transported and trafficked the firearms throughout Texas with the intent to transport them to the Chicago area.  In addition to these three defendants, 10 defendants have also pleaded guilty and are yet to be sentenced. One defendant, Luis Nava, aka "Flaco," withdrew his guilty plea today and will proceed to trial by court order. Five remaining defendants, including Jose Robledo Nava, the alleged ALKQN leader in Texas, are pending trial. Jose Robledo Nava, along with James Johnathan Cole, Robert Allen Ramirez, Gabriel Lee Gonzales and Eduardo Daniel Mares, are charged in the indictment with the May 4, 2008, murders of Valerie Garcia and Michael Cardona in Big Spring.  An indictment is merely an allegation. Defendants are presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty in a court of law.  The case is being investigated by the National Gang Targeting, Enforcement, and Coordinating Center (Gang TECC); the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force (OCDETF); the Midland and El Paso U.S. Attorneys Offices; the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration; the FBI; U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement; the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; the El Paso Intelligence Center; U.S. Customs and Border Protection; the U.S. Marshals Service; the Texas Department of Public Safety; the police departments of Lubbock, Midland, Houston, San Antonio and Big Spring, Texas; the Lubbock County Sheriffs Office; and the Howard County District Attorneys Office.  Trial Attorneys Cody L. Skipper and Joseph A. Cooley of the Criminal Divisions Gang Unit and Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeffrey R. Haag of the Lubbock U.S. Attorneys Office are prosecuting the case.