  WASHINGTON  Four alleged members and associates of the New England La Cosa Nostra (LCN), including an alleged Rhode Island leader, have been arrested and charged in a second superseding indictment returned yesterday in federal court in Providence, R.I., with crimes involving racketeering and extortion.   The charges and arrests were announced today by Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Justice Departments Criminal Division; U.S. Attorney Peter F. Neronha for the District of Rhode Island; John T. Foley, Assistant Special Agent in Charge (ASAC) of the FBIs Boston Field Office; Colonel Steven G. ODonnell, Superintendent of the Rhode Island State Police; and Steven M. Pare, Providence Public Safety Commissioner.   Relying on violence and intimidation to carry out their illegal activities, organized criminal groups often act as though if they operate in the shadows, they will escape punishment, said Assistant Attorney General Breuer. As todays arrests show, they couldnt be more wrong. Our law enforcement operations over the past nine months should make clear that we are zeroing in on La Cosa Nostra and other organized criminal groups, and that we will not rest until our work is done. NoneNone   According to the indictment, Scivola received a portion of the various extortion payments made to the New England LCN by certain adult entertainment businesses, and he assisted Lato and others in carrying out the extortion scheme. The indictment also alleges that Jenkins and Folcarelli were associates of the New England LCN and that, together with Lato, they extorted $25,000 from an individual by using implied threats of violence, including a visit to the individuals place of employment.   Each charge of racketeering conspiracy, extortion conspiracy and extortion carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. The charge of travel in aid of racketeering carries a maximum penalty of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. The charges announced today are merely allegations, and defendants are presumed innocent unless proven guilty in a court of law.   The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Sam Nazzaro of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section and by Assistant U.S. Attorney William Ferland for the District of Rhode Island. The case is being investigated by the FBI, Internal Revenue Service  Criminal Investigation, the Rhode Island State Police and the Providence Police Department.