A New Orleans womanwas sentenced today to 51 months in prisonforher involvement in a $2millionhome health kickback schemecarried out through a New Orleans area home health agency.NoneActing Assistant Attorney General John P. Cronan of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, Acting U.S. Attorney Duane A. Evans of the Eastern District of Louisiana, Special Agent in Charge Eric J. Rommal of the FBIs New Orleans Field Office and Special Agent in Charge C.J. Porter of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector Generals (HHS-OIG) Dallas Field Office made the announcement. Kim Ricard, 51, of Gonzales, Louisiana was sentenced by U.S. District Court Judge Jane Triche Milazzo of the Eastern District of Louisiana, who also ordered Ricard to pay $1.958 million in restitution. On Sept. 12, 2017, the defendant was convicted of one count of conspiracy to pay and receive kickbacks, three counts of receiving kickbacks, three counts of identity theft and one count of making false statements to federal agents.NoneAccording to evidence presented attrial, from 2008 to 2013, Kim Ricard and othersengaged in a scheme torefer mentally ill Medicare patients to home health agencies in and around New Orleans in exchange for kickbacks.The evidence further established thatRicard unlawfully used the Medicare identification information of three Medicare beneficiaries in connection with the scheme. Ricard then made false statements to federal investigators about her conduct, the evidence showed. As a resultof the scheme, Ricards co-conspirator caused Medicare to pay over$1.9 millionbased on those illegally-obtained referrals. None None The Fraud Section leads the Medicare Fraud Strike Force. Since its inception in March 2007, the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, now operating in nine cities across the country, has charged over 3,000 defendants who collectively have billed the Medicare program for over $11 billion. In addition, the HHS Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, working in conjunction with the HHS-OIG, are taking steps to increase accountability and decrease the presence of fraudulent providers. None