None  Jumet, 53, pleaded guilty on Nov. 13, 2009, to conspiring to violate the FCPA and making a false statement to federal agents. The FCPA makes it a crime to pay or offer to pay anything of value to a foreign government official in order to obtain or retain business.  "Todays sentence  the longest ever imposed for violating the FCPA  is an important milestone in our effort to deter foreign bribery," said Assistant Attorney General Breuer. "As this case confirms, foreign corruption carries with it very serious penalties, which can include substantial prison time for individuals who violate the law."None  "Bribery isnt just a cost of doing business overseas," said U.S. Attorney MacBride. "Todays sentence makes clear that this is a serious crime that the U.S. government is intent on enforcing."  "Todays sentencing is an example of how those who intentionally bribe and mislead the government for their personal gain will be prosecuted to the maximum extent," said Assistant Director Henry. "The FBI is committed to pursuing those who disrupt the level playing field to which companies in the U.S. and around the world are entitled."None   According to court documents, from approximately 1997 through July 2003, Jumet and others conspired to pay money secretly to Panamanian government officials in exchange for awarding contracts to Ports Engineering Consultants Corporation (PECC) to maintain lighthouses and buoys along Panamas waterway. In December 1997, the Panamanian government awarded PECC a no-bid 20-year concession. Upon receipt of the concession, Jumet admitted that he and others authorized corrupt payments to be made to the Panamanian government officials. In total, Jumet and others caused corrupt payments of more than $200,000 to be paid to the former administrator and the former deputy administrator of the Panama Maritime Authority and to a former high-ranking elected executive official of the Republic of Panama.  Jumet also made a false statement to federal agents about a "dividend" check payable to the bearer in the amount of $18,000 that was endorsed and deposited into an account belonging to the high-ranking elected Panamanian government official. Jumet falsely claimed that this "dividend" check was a donation for the high-ranking elected officials re-election campaign, when, in fact, Jumet admitted it was given to the elected Panamanian government official as a corrupt payment for allowing PECC to receive the contract.  In a related case, John Warwick pleaded guilty on Feb. 13, 2010, for his role in the same conspiracy to violate the FCPA. He is scheduled to be sentenced by Judge Hudson on May 14, 2010.  The case was prosecuted by Trial Attorney Rina Tucker Harris of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael S. Dry of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of Virginia. The case was investigated by the FBIs Washington Field Office, the FBIs Richmond Field Office and ICEs Richmond Field Office.   The announcement was made by Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Criminal Division; U.S. Attorney Neil H. MacBride of the Eastern District of Virginia; Shawn Henry, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBIs Washington Field Office; Michael F. A. Morehart, Special Agent in Charge of the FBIs Richmond Field Office; and John P. Torres, Special Agent in Charge of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE)s Washington office.