Two former derivatives brokers and a former cash broker employed by London-based brokerage firm ICAP were charged as part of the ongoing criminal investigation into the manipulation of the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), the Justice Department announced today.Darrell Read, who resides in New Zealand, and Daniel Wilkinson and Colin Goodman, both of England, were charged with conspiracy to commit wire fraud and two counts of wire fraud in a criminal complaint unsealed in Manhattan federal court earlier today. They each face a maximum penalty of 30 years in prison for each count upon conviction.By allegedly participating in a scheme to manipulate benchmark interest rates for financial gain, these defendants undermined the integrity of the global markets, said Attorney General Eric Holder. They were supposed to be honest brokers, but instead, they put their own financial interests ahead of that larger responsibility. And as a result, transactions and financial products around the world were compromised, because they were tied to a rate that was distorted due to the brokers dishonesty. These charges underscore the Justice Departments determination to hold accountable all those whose conduct threatens the integrity of our financial markets.NoneCorporate and securities fraud involving the manipulation of these rates causes a worldwide impact on trading positions and erodes the integrity of the market and confidence in Wall Street, said Assistant Director in Charge Valerie Parlave of the FBIs Washington Field Office. Unraveling such complex financial schemes is difficult and time consuming. Todays charges are the result of the hard work of the FBI special agents and forensic accountants who dedicated significant time and resources to investigating this case.According to the criminal complaint, LIBOR is an average interest rate, calculated based on submissions from leading banks around the world, reflecting the rates those banks believe they would be charged if borrowing from other banks. LIBOR is published by the British Bankers Association (BBA), a trade association based in London. At the time relevant to the criminal complaint, LIBOR was calculated for 10 currencies at 15 borrowing periods, known as maturities, ranging from overnight to one year. The published LIBOR fix for a given currency at a specific maturity is the result of a calculation based upon submissions from a panel of banks for that currency (the contributor panel) selected by the BBA.LIBOR serves as the primary benchmark for short-term interest rates globally and is used as a reference rate for many interest rate contracts, mortgages, credit cards, student loans and other consumer lending products. The Bank of International Settlements estimated that as of the second half of 2009, outstanding interest rate contracts were estimated at approximately $450 trillion.According to allegations in the criminal complaint filed in this case, between July 2006 and September 2010, Wilkinson was a desk director employed in the London office of ICAP, where he supervised a group of derivatives brokers  including Read  specializing in Yen-based financial products. Generally, the desks clients were derivatives traders at large financial institutions, and the transactions brokered by Wilkinson, Read and others on the desk essentially consisted of bets between traders on the direction in which Yen LIBOR would move. Between July 2006 and September 2009, the desks largest client was a senior trader at UBS (UBS Trader) in Tokyo, to whom Read spoke almost daily. Because of the large size of the clients trading positions, even slight moves of a fraction of a percent in Yen LIBOR could generate large profits. For example, UBS Trader once told Read that a 0.01 percent  or one basis point  movement in the final Yen LIBOR fixing on a specific date could result in $3 million profit for his trading positions. A significant part of both Reads and Wilkinsons compensation was tied to the brokerage fees generated by UBS Trader and paid to ICAP.Goodman was a cash broker at ICAPs London office during the relevant time period. In addition to brokering cash transactions, Goodman distributed a daily email to individuals outside of ICAP, including derivatives traders at several large banks as well as those responsible for providing the BBA with LIBOR submissions at certain banks. Goodmans email contained what was termed his SUGGESTED LIBORS, purported predictions of where Yen LIBOR ultimately would fix each day across eight specified borrowing periods. Read and Wilkinson, along with Goodman himself, often referred to Goodman as lord libor.The complaint alleges that Read, Wilkinson and Goodman, together with UBS Trader, executed a sustained and systematic scheme to move Yen LIBOR in a direction favorable to UBS Traders trading positions.According to the criminal complaint, the primary strategy employed by Read, Wilkinson and Goodman to execute the scheme was to use Goodmans SUGGESTED LIBORS email to disseminate misinformation to Yen LIBOR panel banks in hopes that the banks would rely on the misinformation when making their own respective Yen LIBOR submissions to the BBA for inclusion in the published fix. Rather than providing good faith predictions as to where Yen LIBOR would fix, Goodman instead often used his daily email to set forth predictions which benefitted UBS Traders trading positions.Beginning in or about June 2007, Goodman was paid a bonus through the desk Wilkinson supervised, allegedly intended, at least in part, to reward Goodman for his role in their effort to influence and manipulate the published Yen LIBOR fix.As a second strategy, Read and Wilkinson allegedly further agreed to contact interest rate derivatives traders and submitters employed at Yen LIBOR panel banks in an effort to cause them to make false and misleading submissions to the BBA at UBS Traders behest.As alleged in the charging document, Read, Wilkinson, Goodman, UBS Trader, and other co-conspirators often executed their scheme through electronic chats and email exchanges. For example, on June 28, 2007, in an email message, Read told Wilkinson: DAN THIS IS GETTING SERIOUS [UBS TRADER] IS NOT HAPPY WITH THE WAY THINGS ARE PROGRESSING . . . CAN YOU PLEASE GET HOLD OF COLIN AND GET HIM TO SEND OUT 6 MOS LIBOR AT 0.865 AND TO GET HIS BANKS SETTING IT HIGH. THIS IS VERY IMPORTANT BECAUSE [UBS TRADER] IS QUESTIONING MY (AND OUR) WORTH.The complaint alleges that the defendants were aware of the effects that Goodmans false and fraudulent SUGGESTED LIBORS had on submissions by Yen LIBOR panel banks. For example, on Nov. 20, 2008, Read asked UBS Trader, you have a really big fix tonight I believe? if Colin sends out 6m at a more realistic level than 1.10 [%] i reckon [the two panel banks] will parrot him, it might mean 6m coming down a bit. On the following day, Nov. 21, 2008, Goodman moved his suggestion for 6-month Yen LIBOR down by nine basis points. The two other banks mirrored Goodmans suggestion, moving their 6-month Yen LIBOR submissions down by nine basis points.According to allegations in the complaint, Read counseled UBS Trader how to most effectively manipulate Yen LIBOR. For example, UBS Trader told Read in a July 22, 2009, electronic chat that 11th aug is the big date...i still have lots of 6m fixings till the 10th. Read responded to UBS Trader, if you drop [UBSs] 6m dramatically on the 11th mate, it will look v fishy... . Id be v careful how you play it, there might be cause for a drop as you cross into a new month but a couple of weeks in might get people questioning you. UBS Trader replied, dont worry will stagger the drops...ie 5bp then 5bp, and Read told UBS Trader, ok mate, dont want you getting into [expletive]. UBS Trader again assured Read that UBS and two additional panel banks would stagger their drops in coordination, and Read concluded, great the plan is hatched and sounds sensible.A criminal complaint is a formal accusation of criminal conduct, not evidence. A defendant is presumed innocent unless and until convicted.The investigation is being conducted by special agents, forensic accountants, and intelligence analysts of the FBIs Washington Field Office. The prosecution is being handled by Deputy Chief William Stellmach and Trial Attorney Sandra L. Moser of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and Trial Attorneys Eric Schleef and Kristina Srica of the Antitrust Division. Trial Attorneys Alexander Berlin and Thomas B.W. Hall, Law Clerk Andrew Tyler, and Paralegal Specialist Kevin Sitarski of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section, along with Assistant Chief Elizabeth Prewitt and Trial Attorney Richard Powers of the Antitrust Division, and former Trial Attorney Luke Marsh have also provided valuable assistance. The Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs has provided assistance in this matter as well.The broader investigation relating to LIBOR and other benchmark rates has required, and has greatly benefited from, a diligent and wide-ranging cooperative effort among various enforcement agencies both in the United States and abroad. The Justice Department acknowledges and expresses its deep appreciation for this assistance. In particular, the Commodity Futures Trading Commissions Division of Enforcement referred this matter to the Department and, along with the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority, has played a major role in the investigation. The Securities and Exchange Commission has also provided valuable assistance for which the Department is grateful. The Department also expresses its appreciation to the United Kingdoms Serious Fraud Office for its assistance and ongoing cooperation. Various agencies and enforcement authorities from other nations are also participating in different aspects of the broader investigation, and the Department is grateful for their cooperation and assistance as well.Finally, the Department acknowledges ICAPs continuing cooperation in the Departments ongoing investigation.NoneNone