Acting U. S. Attorney Christopher C. Myers of the District of North Dakota, in conjunction with U.S. Attorney Benjamin B. Wagner of the Eastern District of California, Attorney General Wayne Stenehjem of North Dakota, Special Agent in Charge Richard Thornton of the FBIs Minneapolis Division and Chief Greg Williamson of the Bakersfield Police Department, announced the indictment of 22 individuals in western North Dakota and seven defendants in Bakersfield, California.On June 3, 2015, the Bakken Organized Crime Strike Force was formally announced by Acting U.S. Attorney Myers, North Dakota Attorney General Stenehjem, Director Bruce Ohr of the Organized Crime and Drug Enforcement Task Force (OCDETF) and U.S. Attorney Mike Cotter of the District of Montana. The indictments are a result of Operation Western Edge, an OCDETF investigation into the trafficking of methamphetamine and heroin from Bakersfield to the Bakken region.The strike force was designed to work as one unit to identify, target and dismantle criminal organizations working in the Bakken, and reach beyond the borders of North Dakota to ensure the entire criminal organization is brought to justice, said Acting U.S. Attorney Myers. After only a few months we are seeing the efficiency, strength and extended reach provided by the strike force model. The results here are exactly what we hoped for when we designed the strike force.Cross-jurisdictional cooperation is essential for effective narcotics enforcement, said U.S. Attorney Wagner. We are grateful to the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of North Dakota for its leadership in this case, and to our state and federal law enforcement colleagues in both states for their professionalism and assistance.These are the results we can expect with the cooperative efforts as exemplified by the Bakken Strike Force, said North Dakota Attorney General Stenehjem. This investigation involved over two years of diligent efforts by various state, local and federal enforcement agencies, including the Bureau of Criminal Investigation under my authority. I am committed to continuing our joint efforts with the U.S. Attorneys Office and the FBI, not just through the Bakken Strike Force, but on other enforcement operations.The FBI is committed to the security of the Bakken area of North Dakota, said Special Agent in Charge Thornton. Wewill continueto aggressively investigate organized crime wherever itmay befound. Wewill workwith our law enforcement partners, through the Bakken Organized Crime Strike Force,to ensurethat those who engage in this type of criminal activity pay a high price.NoneDefendants indicted in North Dakota: Assistant U.S. Attorney Rick Volk is prosecuting these cases for the District of North Dakota.Defendants Indicted in the Eastern District of California:Assistant U.S. Attorney Brian Delaney is prosecuting these cases for the Eastern District of California.The indictments from both districts were recently unsealed and are merely accusations; the defendants are presumed innocent unless proven guilty.The case is being investigated by the FBI, the North Dakota Bureau of Criminal Investigation, the Bakersfield Police Department, the Minot Police Department, the Ward County, North Dakota, Sheriffs Office, the Ward County Narcotics Task Force, the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Metro Area Narcotics Task Force, the North Dakota Highway Patrol and the U.S. Border Patrol.