None   Ward Diesel, which is headquartered in Elmira, N.Y., manufactures filtering systems for diesel engines on fire trucks.   The company had provided the systems to the Department of the Army, Department of the Navy, Department of Interior, as well as the Air Force, Marine Corps and Department of Energy.   Ward Diesels contract required it to truthfully provide its commercial pricing information to GSA during the contracting process.   The contract required Ward Diesel to identify a group of most-favored customers, and to provide more favorable prices to GSA than it offered to those most-favored customers.   In addition, Ward Diesels contract with GSA required Ward Diesel to notify GSA of any additional discounts to the most-favored customers during the life of the contract.   The United States alleged that Ward Diesel failed to fulfill these obligations, thereby routinely overcharging government agencies that purchased diesel filter systems from Ward Diesel though its GSA contract.   In these tight times of fiscal responsibility, knowingly overcharging government agencies that are trying to do more with less is particularly inappropriate and harmful to the agencies missions, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Stuart F. Delery.   This resolution demonstrates that the department will vigorously pursue government contractors who overprice their products at the expense of the American taxpayers.      This is another example of our commitment to rooting out those who attempt to defraud the government.   Companies that choose to do business with the United States must play by the rules.   When they fail to do so, this office will do its utmost to enforce the law and protect taxpayers money, said John P. Kacavas, U.S. Attorney for the District of New Hampshire.    None   Acting Assistant Attorney General Stuart F. Delery and U.S. Attorney John P. Kacavas commended the many agencies that participated in the governments investigation, including the Civil Division of the U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of New Hampshire, the Inspector General of the GSA, the Defense Criminal Investigative Service, the Defense Contract Audit Agency, Air Force Criminal Investigation Division, Air Force Office of Special Investigations and Navy Criminal Investigative Service. The claims settled by this agreement are allegations only, and there has been no determination of liability.