  WASHINGTON - EMC Corporation has paid the United States $87.5 million to settle a lawsuit alleging that the information technology company violated the False Claims Act and the federal Anti-kickback Act, the Justice Department announced today.  The United States alleged that, by misrepresenting its commercial pricing practices, EMC fraudulently induced the General Services Administration (GSA) to enter into a contract with prices that were higher than they would have been had the information technology company not made false misrepresentations. Specifically, the United States alleged that the Hopkinton, Mass.-based company represented during contract negotiations that, for each government order under the contract, EMC would conduct a price comparison to ensure that the government received the lowest price provided to any of the companys commercial customers making a comparable purchase. According to the governments complaint, EMC knew that it was not capable of conducting such a comparison, and so EMCs representations during the negotiations    as well as its subsequent representations to GSA that it was conducting the comparisons    were false or fraudulent.None  "Misrepresentations during contract negotiations and the payment of kickbacks or illegal inducements undermine the integrity of the government procurement process," said Tony West, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Division of the Department of Justice. "The Justice Department is acting to ensure that government purchasers of commercial products can be assured that they are getting the prices they are entitled to."None  "Companies should not keep charging higher prices to the Government when costs go down. The American taxpayers deserve a better deal," said GSA Inspector General Brian D. Miller. "This case is another demonstration of the value of OIG audits."  The case was handled by the Justice Departments Civil Division and the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, with the assistance of the General Services Administration Office of the Inspector General, the Department of Energy Office of the Inspector General, the U.S. Postal Service Office of the Inspector General, the Defense Criminal Investigative Service, and the Treasury Departments Inspector General for Tax Administration.