Department of Justice and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) today announced a settlement with Detroit Diesel Corporation that resolves alleged violations of the Clean Air Act for selling heavy-duty diesel engines that were not certified by EPA and did not meet applicable emission standards. Under the settlement, Detroit Diesel will spend $14.5 million on projects to reduce nitrogen oxide and other pollutants, including replacing high-polluting diesel school buses and locomotive engines with models that meet current emissions standards. Detroit Diesel will also pay a $14 million civil penalty.NoneThis case demonstrates the critical importance of EPAs vehicle and engine certification program to achieving the goals of the Clean Air Act, said Assistant Attorney General John C. Cruden for the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division. By not certifying the engines in accordance with the rules, Detroit Diesel Corp. increased pollution and undercut competitors. We will uphold the integrity of that program by holding accountable those that skirt the rules.Todays settlement protects clean air for many communities and vulnerable people across the country, including school children, said Cynthia Giles, Assistant Administrator for EPAs Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance. EPA will continue to hold engine manufacturers accountable for meeting emissions standards that protect public health and the air we breathe.The Clean Air Act requires manufacturers to obtain a certificate of conformity demonstrating compliance with emission standards before introducing an engine into commerce. Certificates of conformity cover only those engines produced within a single model year. A model year for an engine family of engines ends either when the last such engine is produced, or on Dec. 31 of the calendar year, for which the model year is named, whichever date is sooner.NoneUnder the consent decree, Detroit Diesel will be required to implement projects to replace high-polluting school buses with school buses that meet current federal emissions standards and replace or repower high-polluting switch locomotives. Detroit Diesel is also required to post data and information about the clean diesel projects on a public website.Detroit Diesel is a Michigan corporation that began as a diesel engine manufacturing division of the General Motors Corporation in 1938. It is currently a wholly-owned subsidiary of Daimler Trucks North America. Detroit Diesel manufactures heavy-duty diesel engines, axles and transmissions for the on-highway and vocational truck markets.NoneNoneNone