    Community State Bank of St. Charles, Mich., will open a loan production office in an African-American neighborhood in Saginaw, Mich., invest $165,000 in majority African-American areas in and around Saginaw and take other steps as part of a settlement to resolve allegations that it engaged in a pattern or practice of discrimination on the basis of race, the Justice Department announced today.      The settlement, which remains subject to court approval, was filed in conjunction with the departments complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan.  The complaint alleges that Community State Bank violated the Fair Housing Act and the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (EOCA), which prohibit financial institutions from discriminating on the basis of race in their lending practices.  The lawsuit alleges that Community State Bank between 2006 and 2009 served the credit needs of the residents of predominantly white neighborhoods in the Saginaw and Flint metropolitan areas to a significantly greater extent than it served the credit needs of majority African-American neighborhoods.  Those neighborhoods are easily recognized because the Saginaw area has long had highly-segregated residential housing patterns, especially for African-Americans.       The complaint filed today shows that the practice of drawing lending areas with boundaries that exclude borrowers in predominately minority neighborhoods is not just a shameful historical practice, said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division.   We are pleased that Community State Bank will improve access to responsible and affordable credit to qualified borrowers in Saginaws minority neighborhoods.      Barbara McQuade, the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Michigan added: Todays settlement will bring badly needed resources to Saginaw and the surrounding areas. It will broaden opportunities for home ownership and home improvement for families who live in neighborhoods where credit has been unlawfully limited. We appreciate the banks cooperation in resolving this case.     The lawsuit originated from a referral by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) to the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division.  Community State Bank is regulated by the FDIC.       Under the settlement, Community will invest $75,000 in a special financing program to increase the amount of credit the bank extends to majority African-American neighborhoods in and around Saginaw, $75,000 in partnerships with organizations that provides credit, financial, homeownership, and/or foreclosure prevention services to the residents of these neighborhoods, and $15,000 in outreach that promotes its products and services to potential customers in these neighborhoods.  Community also will open a loan production office in a majority African-American neighborhood of Saginaw and conduct fair lending training for its employees.  The agreement also prohibits Community from discriminating on the basis of race in any aspect of a credit transaction.   None None NoneNone