      The former managing director of Pamrapo Saving Banks investment company was arrested today and charged with allegedly diverting and embezzling more than $600,000.       The charges were announced by Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Criminal Division; U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman for the District of New Jersey; Special Agent in Charge William P. Offord of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Criminal Investigative Division; and Inspector General Jon T. Rymer of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Office of Inspector General (FDIC-OIG).       Brian M. Campbell, 41, of Bayonne, N.J., was arrested this morning by IRS agents and will make his initial appearance today at 1:00 P.M. EDT before U.S. Magistrate Judge Madeline Cox Arleo in the District of New Jersey, Newark Division.  Campbell is charged with mail fraud and money laundering in a 54-count indictment returned under seal by a federal grand jury on May 27, 2010.  The indictment also contains a forfeiture allegation. None       According to the indictment, the Service Corporation was required to conduct or clear securities transactions, such as the purchase, sale and transfer of stocks, through a registered broker-dealer because it did not possess any securities licenses.  The Service Corporation also provided other investment services through a second subsidiary, an accounting company, which was a sister company to the registered broker-dealer.  According to the indictment, Campbell was designated as a registered representative of these two entities and as such, was authorized to conduct securities transactions and other investment services for customers on behalf of the Service Corporation through the two entities.   None       According to the indictment, in approximately August 2006, Campbells compensation was modified, resulting in him receiving a significant pay cut.  In approximately 2007, according to the indictment, Campbell allegedly created a scheme to divert money belonging to the Service Corporation to himself.       Specifically, the indictment alleges that Campbell sent a letter to the registered broker-dealer, which falsely claimed that Pamrapo Savings Bank wanted commissions owed to the Service Corporation to be paid directly to Campbell.  Also without the authorization or knowledge of the board of directors, Campbell allegedly caused a second letter to be signed that directed the registered broker-dealer and the accounting company to pay the vast majority of the fees and commissions owed to the Service Corporation directly to Campbell.       In addition, Campbell allegedly caused various insurance companies to issue fees and commissions owed to the Service Corporation directly to him, without the authorization or knowledge of the board of directors.  Campbell then allegedly made false statements to the Pamrapo Savings Bank, its chief financial officer, the board of directors, the Service Corporation and others, to cover up and conceal his scheme, as well as to allow it to continue.       According to the indictment, Campbell allegedly received more than $600,000 in checks from the various entities as a result of his scheme.  In addition, the indictment alleges that Campbell laundered portions of the fraud proceeds to pay his credit card bills.       If convicted, Campbell faces a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine on each of the mail fraud charges.  He faces a maximum prison sentence of 10 years and a $250,000 fine on each of the money laundering charges. None      The case is being prosecuted by Senior Trial Attorney John W. Sellers and Trial Attorney Keith Liddle of the Criminal Divisions Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section, and Assistant U.S. Attorney Anthony Moscato of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of New Jersey.  The case is being investigated by the IRS Criminal Investigation Division and the FDIC-OIG.