  Eight members of the violent gang known as the "Almighty Latin King and Queen Nation" (ALKQN) have pleaded guilty to a variety of charges, including drug conspiracy and weapons trafficking.  Jesus Martinez, aka "Solid," 28, of Midland, Texas, and Guerrero Olivas, aka "Screech," 26, of Big Spring, Texas, both pleaded guilty late yesterday afternoon in Lubbock, Texas, before U.S. District Judge Sam R. Cummings to a superseding indictment charging them with conspiring to distribute and possession with intent to distribute five kilograms or more of cocaine and 100 kilograms or more of marijuana. Martinez also pleaded guilty to conspiring to engage in the business of dealing in firearms.  Luis Nava, aka "Flaco," 25, of Midland and John Guzman, 30, of Big Spring, both pleaded guilty on May 18, 2009, before Judge Cummings to the superseding indictment, which charged them with conspiring to distribute and possession with intent to distribute five kilograms or more of cocaine and 100 kilograms or more of marijuana.  Defendants Eliseo Perez, aka "Wicked," 28, of Mission, Texas; Cecily Dominique Juarez, 20, of Midland; and Reynaldo Nava, aka "Rat," 27, of Big Spring, have also pleaded guilty to conspiring to distribute and possession with intent to distribute five kilograms or more of cocaine and 100 kilograms or more of marijuana. Perez pleaded on May 14, 2009, before judge Cummings, Juarez pleaded on May 8, 2009, and Nava pleaded on April 17, 2009.  Hiluterio Chavez, aka "Zeus," 33, of Chicago, pleaded guilty on May 14, 2009, before Judge Cummings to a superseding indictment charging him with being a convicted felon in possession of firearms, possession of stolen firearms and conspiring to engage in the business of dealing in firearms.  The superseding indictment in this case, which charged a total of 17 defendants, was unsealed on Feb. 26, 2009. The indictment charged that from 2001 until Dec. 13, 2008, when six of the defendants were arrested, the defendants, as members of the ALKQN, conspired to distribute multi-kilogram quantities of cocaine and marijuana throughout Texas and elsewhere. According to the indictment, they acquired the cocaine and marijuana from Mexico and brought it to the South Texas region, where it was packaged, stored and transported to Big Spring, Lubbock and Midland for further distribution.  This case was investigated by the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force; the Midland and El Paso U.S. Attorneys Offices; the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration; the FBI; U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement; the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; the U.S. Marshals Service; the Texas Department of Public Safety; the Police Departments of Lubbock, Midland, Houston and Big Spring, and the Howard County, Texas, District Attorneys Office.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Cody L. Skipper of the Lubbock division of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Northern District of Texas and Trial Attorney Joseph A. Cooley of the Criminal Divisions Gang Unit are prosecuting the case.