None     Birnbaum will administer the fund created under the James Zadroga 9/11 Health & Compensation Act, signed into law by President Obama on Jan. 2, 2011. The bill reactivates the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund that operated from 2001-2003, expanding the pool of applicants to include first responders and other individuals who experienced latent physical injuries associated with the attacks or with debris removal. None None       Ken Feinberg laid a great foundation during the funds first iteration, and I plan to build upon it, continued Birnbaum.       The fund is expected to become fully operational after funding appropriated for its administration becomes available on Oct. 1, 2011.  Birnbaum indicated that she will publish proposed regulations to govern the program as soon as possible, and take public comment on those proposed regulations over the summer before finalizing them.     In 2006, 9/11 victims and corporate defendants jointly asked Judge Alvin K. Hellerstein to appoint Birnbaum to mediate 95 wrongful death and personal injury cases.  Birnbaum successfully mediated 92 of them.  Judge Hellerstein called her work extraordinary and noted that she had gained credibility with the 9/11 community.  In a March 5, 2009, order Hellerstein wrote, She allowed each of the plaintiffs families to express their loss and the quality of the lives lost on September 11.  She absorbed their losses and their pain with empathy. . . .  She gained plaintiffs confidence.     Birnbaum, the daughter of a grocery store owner in Harlem, N.Y., attended James Monroe High School, and graduated from Hunter College as the first person in her family to attend college.  She taught the fourth grade at P.S. 62 in the Bronx, N.Y., before attending New York University School of Law.  Since law school, she has taught at both Fordham University School of Law and NYU School of Law, where she became Associate Dean.  She is now a partner at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, and the chair of the firms Mass Torts Litigation Group.     Birnbaum has an extensive career in public service.  Among other positions, she has served as the first president and founding member of Judges and Lawyers Breast Cancer Alert; as a member on the New York State Judicial Commission on Minorities; as Executive Director for the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuits Task Force for Racial, Ethnic and Gender Fairness; as Chair for the Commission on Fiduciary Appointments; and as President of the New York Womens Bar Association. None