  WASHINGTON - Edward B. Bartoli, a Clearwater, Fla., resident and former attorney, was sentenced to 10 years in prison by U.S. District Judge Charles R. Norgle of Chicago, the Justice Department and Internal Revenue Service (IRS) announced today.None  According to court documents and evidence introduced at trial, the tax fraud scheme used a network of promoters, sub-promoters, managers, attorneys and accountants and resulted in a $60 million dollar tax loss to the United States. Aegis, which is now defunct, was formerly based in Palos Hills, Ill.  In addition to 10 years in prison, Judge Norgle sentenced Bartoli to 3 years of supervised release. In addition to the tax fraud conspiracy, Bartoli was found guilty of and sentenced on twenty-four counts of aiding and assisting in the filing of false returns, four counts of tax evasion, seven counts of mail fraud, and two counts of wire fraud.  Bartoli and his five co-defendants were convicted following an 11-week trial. The defendants were indicted in 2004, following a lengthy undercover investigation by IRS agents, code-named "Operation Trust Me," and the seizure of roughly 1.5 million documents, computer files and related materials. Nationwide, the Chicago-based investigation has resulted in convictions of more than 30 defendants and charges against approximately 30 other defendants around the country, including in Florida, Illinois, New York, Ohio and West Virginia.NoneNone  Two other defendants in this case, David E. Parker, of Williamsville, N.Y., an attorney who was the legal director of the Aegis Management Company, and John C. Stambulis of Palos Heights, an attorney and a trust counsel of Aegis, both pleaded guilty and testified for the government at trial. They also are awaiting sentencing.  "Todays sentence, as well as the sentences of Mr. Bartolis co-defendants, sends a strong message that those individuals who evade taxes or promote fraudulent tax evasion schemes face significant consequences," said Ronald A. Cimino, Acting Deputy Assistant Attorney General of the Justice Departments Tax Division. "These penalties include substantial fines and lengthy prison sentences."  "Abusive trust schemes are a threat to our nations tax system," said Al Patton, Special Agent in-Charge of the IRS-Criminal Investigation in Chicago. "Establishing abusive trusts for the purpose of evading taxes is a crime for which promoters and investors will be prosecuted and sentenced to years of imprisonment. Todays sentencing demonstrates the seriousness of the offenses related to these unlawful schemes."  Mr. Cimino thanked IRS-Criminal Investigation Division agents for their hard work, as well as Assistant U.S. Attorneys Stephen L. Heinze and Barry Rand Elden, and Tax Division trial attorney Thomas W. Flynn, who prosecuted the case.None