NoneNoneNone   Before the merger, there were two competitors  Modelo and ABI  and ABI owned a substantial stake in Modelo.   The companies proposed merger would have reduced those two competitors to one  ABI.  The proposed settlement announced today will create an independent, fully integrated and economically viable competitor to ABI.   This is a win for the $80 billion U.S. beer market and consumers, said Bill Baer, Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Department of Justices Antitrust Division.   If this settlement makes just a one percent difference in prices, U.S. consumers will save almost $1 billion a year.None   The licensed brands include all seven brands that Modelo currently offers (through its distributor, Crown) in the United States  Corona Extra, Corona Light, Modelo Especial, Negra Modelo, Modelo Light, Pacifico and Victoria  as well as three brands not yet offered in the United States, but currently sold by Modelo in Mexico  Pacifico Light, Barrilito and Len.   The licenses include rights that will give Constellation the ability to adapt to changing market conditions in the United States.   Constellation has committed to expand the capacity of Piedras Negras in order to meet current and future demand for the Modelo brands in the United States, and that commitment is a condition of the proposed settlement.   The settlement also sets milestones for the expansion of the Piedras Negras brewery.   In order to enable Constellation to compete in the United States during the time it takes to expand the Piedras Negras brewerys capacity to brew and bottle beer, the settlement requires ABI to enter into interim supply and transition services agreements with Constellation.   These agreements are time-limited to ensure that Constellation will become a fully independent competitor to ABI as soon as practicable. None   ABI is a corporation organized and existing under the laws of Belgium, with headquarters in Leuven, Belgium.   ABI brews and markets more beer sold in the United States than any other firm, with a 39 percent market share nationally.   ABI owns and operates 125 breweries worldwide, including 12 in the United States.   It owns more than 200 different beer brands, including Bud Light  the best-selling brand in the United States  and other popular brands such as Budweiser, Busch, Michelob, Natural Light, Stella Artois, Goose Island and Becks.   Modelo is a corporation organized and existing under the laws of Mexico, with headquarters in Mexico City.   Modelo is the third-largest brewer of beer sold in the United States, with a seven percent market share nationally.   Modelo owns Corona Extrathe top-selling beer imported into the United States.   Its other popular brands sold in the United States include Corona Light, Modelo Especial, Negra Modelo, Victoria and Pacifico.   Crown imports, markets and sells Modelos brands into the United States.   ABI currently holds a 35.3 percent direct interest in Modelo and a 23.3 percent direct interest in Modelos operating subsidiary Diblo.   Constellation, headquartered in Victor, N.Y, is a beer, wine and spirits company with a portfolio of more than 100 products, including Robert Mondavi, Clos du Bois, Ruffino and SVEDKA Vodka.   It produces wine and distilled spirits, with more than 40 facilities worldwide.   None