 NoneThe Attorney General's memorandum is the first formal policy statement adopted by the Justice Department on this issue. It clarifies and expands on longstanding Department practice, consistent with the Department of the Interior's 35-year old Morton Policy, of not prosecuting tribal members for possessing or using eagle feathers and other protected bird parts.Federal wildlife laws such as the Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act generally criminalize the killing of eagles and other migratory birds and the possession or commercialization of the feathers and other parts of such birds. These important laws are enforced by the Department of Justice and the Department of the Interior and help ensure that eagle and other bird populations remain healthy and sustainable.None This policy will help ensure a consistent and uniform approach across the nation to protecting and preserving eagles, and to honoring their cultural and spiritual significance to American Indians, said Attorney General Holder. The Department of Justice is committed to striking the right balance in enforcing our nations wildlife laws by respecting the cultural and religious practices of federally recognized Indian tribes with whom the United States shares a unique government-to-government relationship.The department is issuing this policy to address the concerns of tribal members who are unsure of how they may be affected by federal wildlife law enforcement efforts, and because of a concern that this uncertainty may hinder or inhibit tribal religious and cultural practices. The department first announced it was considering formalizing a policy on eagle feathers in October 2011 and sought tribal input at that time. The department held formal consultations with tribal leaders in June, July and August 2012.From time immemorial, many Native Americans have viewed eagle feathers and other bird parts as sacred elements of their religious and cultural traditions, said Ignacia S. Moreno, Assistant Attorney General of the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division. The Department of Justice has taken a major step forward by establishing a consistent and transparent policy to guide federal enforcement of the nations wildlife laws in a manner that respects the cultural and religious practices of federally recognized Indian tribes and their members. The Justice Departments policy balances the needs of the federally recognized tribes and their members to be able to obtain, possess and use eagle feathers for their religious and cultural practices with the need to protect and preserve these magnificent birds, said Donald E. Del Laverdure, Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs.Its reasoned approach reflects a greater understanding and respect for cultural beliefs and spiritual practices of Indian people while also providing much-needed clarity for those responsible for enforcing federal migratory bird protection laws. NoneNoneThe policy provides that, consistent with the Department of Justices traditional exercise of its discretion, a member of a federally recognized tribe engaged only in the following types of conduct will not be subject to prosecution: NoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneThe policy expands upon longstanding Department of Justice practice and Department of the Interior policy. It was developed in close coordination with the Department of the Interior. The Department of Justices Environment and Natural Resources Division (ENRD) and United States Attorneys Offices work closely with the Department of the Interiors U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and Bureau of Indian Affairs on enforcement of federal laws protecting birds.None 