None  Carrie Christine Wood, 38, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Marcia Crone in Beaumont, Texas, on Feb. 17, 2011, to committing violent crime in aid of racketeering activity related to the murder of David Mitchamore.   According to information presented in court, Wood was a close associate and confidant of her co-defendant, Carl Carver, a general of the Aryan Brotherhood of Texas (ABT).   The ABT is a race-based, state-wide organization that operates inside and outside of state and federal prisons throughout Texas and the United States.   The ABT enforces its rules and promotes discipline among its members, prospects and associates through murder, attempted murder, conspiracy to murder, assault, robbery and threats against those who violate the rules or pose a threat to the enterprise.   Members, and oftentimes associates, are required to follow the orders of higher ranking members, often referred to as direct orders.   NoneNoneNone   With todays sentencing of Carrie Wood, all of the conspirators involved in the murders of David Mitchamore and Christie Brown have now been held accountable for their crimes, said Assistant Attorney General Breuer. Whether gang members and their associates pull the trigger or provide support for violent crimes, they will be brought to justice. ABT traffics in fear, intimidation and violence. But, as this case shows, the department is committed to dismantling criminal enterprises like ABT and holding their members criminally responsible.   With the conviction and sentencing of Carrie Wood, the last remaining defendant in this case has answered for her crimes, said U.S. Attorney Bales.   We promised to bring David Mitchamores and Christie Browns killers to justice and we have done that.   But equally important is our commitment and effort to neutralize the ABT in east Texas.   To that end, we will continue to investigate and prosecute the criminal activities of the ABT until we have completely diminished its menace.   The agents and officers working on this case and others like it are doing a superlative job for their fellow citizens  I congratulate them.      This case was investigated by the FBI; the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; the National Gang Targeting, Enforcement and Coordination Center (Gang-TECC); the Nacogdoches Sheriffs Department; the Nacogdoches Police Department; the Angelina County, Texas, Sheriffs Department; the Texas Department of Public Safety; and the Texas Rangers.   The case is being prosecuted by the Office of the U.S. Attorney in Lufkin, Texas, and the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section, in full cooperation with the Nacogdoches County District Attorneys Office.   