The Department of Justice and the Department of Education reached agreement with the Boston Public Schools (the district) and its superintendent today to ensure that English Language Learner (ELL) students in Boston receive the services and supports they need to overcome language barriers, as required by the Equal Educational Opportunities Act of 1974 and Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. This agreement replaces an interim settlement agreement entered on Oct. 1, 2010, which required the district to implement short-term remedies to ensure that thousands of students improperly excluded from the districts ELL programs were promptly assessed and provided services. None We applaud the Boston Public Schools for working collaboratively with the United States to develop a comprehensive plan to effectively serve all students who are not proficient in English, said Thomas E. Perez, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division. We believe this plan can guide other school districts seeking to ensure that its English Language Learner programs not only meet the requirements of federal law, but also empower English Language Learner students to strive for success in their education and lives.  A key to success is access to a high quality education and today, the Boston Public Schools is promising to provide limited English proficient students an equal opportunity for success by giving them access to programs and services tailored to meet their needs, including access to accelerated programs, said Russlynn Ali, Assistant Secretary for the Office for Civil Rights at the Department of Education. The Department of Education is committed to working with the Boston School Committee as it implements this comprehensive plan.  Our education system must provide our children with opportunities to develop into productive citizens regardless of their proficiency in English. When English language learners lack properly trained teachers, those opportunities are curtailed, said U.S. Attorney Carmen M. Ortiz of the District of Massachusetts. We share the goal of continued improvement to Massachusetts schools and look forward to the progress of this collaborative effort. None