The Department of Justice announced today that it will require Cox Automotive Inc., a subsidiary of Cox Enterprises Inc., to divest Dealertrack Technologies Inc.s automobile dealership full-featured inventory management solution (IMS) business in order for Cox to acquire Dealertrack through an approximately $4 billion tender offer. The departments Antitrust Division filed a civil antitrust lawsuit today in the U.S. District Court of the District of Columbia to block the proposed acquisition. At the same time the department filed a proposed settlement that, if approved by the court, would resolve the competitive concerns alleged in the lawsuit.Coxs proposed acquisition of Dealertrack would have allowed Cox to become the dominant inventory management solution provider in the United States, said Assistant Attorney General Bill Baer of the Antitrust Division. The divestiture will ensure that automotive dealerships in the United States continue to benefit from the competition that now exists among inventory management solution providers. According to the departments complaint, Cox and Dealertrack are the two leading IMS providers. Coxs acquisition of Dealertrack would increase Coxs market share from 60 percent to 86 percent. Inventory management solutions use algorithms and sophisticated analytics to assist automotive dealerships in managing their vehicle inventories. They are used most frequently by large franchised and independent dealerships, which are more dependent on robust, automated solutions to manage their businesses. The elimination of competition between Cox and Dealertrack would likely result in higher prices and lower quality for automotive dealerships that use this technology.The proposed consent decree, which requires Cox to divest Dealertracks IMS business to DealerSocket Inc., or to another buyer approved by the United States, remedies the loss of competition in the IMS market. The proposed consent decree also requires Cox to enable the continuing exchange of data and content between the divested IMS business and other data sources, internet sites and automotive solutions that Cox will control. Additionally, Cox must undertake various obligations to prevent Cox from using Dealertracks interest in Chrome Data Solutions LP, a company that compiles and licenses vehicle information data for use in inventory systems and other automated solutions and services for the automotive industry.Cox Enterprises Inc. and its subsidiary Cox Automotive Inc. are privately-held Delaware corporations with their headquarters in Atlanta. Cox sells a diverse portfolio of leading automated solutions and services for automotive dealers and consumers, including vAuto, an IMS. Coxs total annual automotive revenue in 2014 was about $4.9 billion, of which its U.S. IMS revenue was a small part.NoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNone