A federal court enjoined Philips North America LLC (Philips) and two of the companys executives from distributing certain medical devices, including some of the companys external defibrillators, until the company takes remedial steps, the Department of Justice announced today. None None The Department filed a complaint in the District of Massachusetts on Oct. 11, at the request of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). As alleged in the complaint, FDA inspected Philips Bothell, Washington, facility in 2015. The inspection revealed that company had failed to establish and maintain adequate procedures for implementing corrective and preventive action as required by federal regulation. Specifically, the complaint alleged that while Philips initiated corrective and preventive action in response to complaints involving certain resistor failures during the use of the HeartStart HS1 and FRx defibrillators, Philips corrective actions did not fully address the problem with the devices in the field and Philips continued to receive complaints about the failure. None None Manufacturing medical devices in violation of current good manufacturing practice is conduct that cannot be tolerated. This decree ensures that Philips will reform its practices and comply with the law, said Acting U.S. Attorney William D. Weinreb, District of Massachusetts.  AEDs are life-saving tools and are designed to be used by the general public or professionals in an emergency, said Melinda Plaisier, FDA Associate Commissioner for Regulatory Affairs. People rely on these devices to work when needed. By not adequately addressing corrective and preventative actions with their AEDs in a timely manner, Philips distributed adulterated products that put people at risk.  The government is represented by Trial Attorney Alexander Sverdlov of the Civil Divisions Consumer Protection Branch and Assistant U.S. Attorney George Henderson of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Massachusetts, with the assistance of Associate Chief Counsel Jennifer Kang of the Department of Health and Human Services Office of General Counsels Food and Drug Division. None