  WASHINGTON  Ira Isaacs was sentenced today to serve 48 months in prison for engaging in the business of producing and selling obscene videos and distributing obscene videos, announced Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Andr Birotte Jr. of the Central District of California, Assistant Director in Charge Bill L. Lewis of the FBIs Los Angeles Field Office and Los Angeles Police Department Chief Charlie Beck.  Isaacs, 61, of Los Angeles, was sentenced by U.S. District Court Judge George H. King in the Central District of California. In addition to his prison term, Isaacs was sentenced to three years of supervised release and ordered to pay a $10,000 fine.  On April 27, 2012, Isaacs was convicted by a federal jury in Los Angeles on all counts of a superseding indictment filed in April 2011.  Evidence presented at trial established that beginning in or about 1999 and continuing until at least 2011, Isaacs, doing business under the name L.A. Media, operated numerous websites, through which he advertised and sold obscene videos that he acquired from other people. The obscene videos included a video approximately two hours in length of a female engaging in sex acts involving human bodily waste and a video one hour and 37 minutes in length of a female engaged in sex acts with animals.  The evidence presented at trial also established that in approximately 2004, Isaacs began operating under the name Stolen Car Films, and made obscene videos in which he instructed women to engage in sexual activity involving human bodily waste. He subsequently advertised and sold the videos through his various websites.  The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Michael W. Grant and Deputy Chief Damon King of the Criminal Divisions Child Exploitation and Obscenity Section, with the assistance of Trial Attorney Jeannette Gunderson of the Criminal Divisions Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section. The investigation was conducted by the FBI and Los Angeles Police Department.