NoneRecently, questions have arisen from school districts, colleges and universities, and others about transgender students and how to best ensure these students, and non-transgender students, can all enjoy a safe and discrimination-free environment.NoneThere is no room in our schools for discrimination of any kind, including discrimination against transgender students on the basis of their sex, said Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch. This guidance gives administrators, teachers and parents the tools they need to protect transgender students from peer harassment and to identify and address unjust school policies. I look forward to continuing our work with the Department of Education  and with schools across the country  to create classroom environments that are safe, nurturing, and inclusive for all of our young people.No student should ever have to go through the experience of feeling unwelcome at school or on a college campus, said U.S. Secretary of Education John B. King Jr. This guidance further clarifies what weve said repeatedly  that gender identity is protected under Title IX. Educators want to do the right thing for students, and many have reached out to us for guidance on how to follow the law. We must ensure that our young people know that whoever they are or wherever they come from, they have the opportunity to get a great education in an environment free from discrimination, harassment and violence.Every child deserves to attend school in a safe, supportive environment that allows them to thrive and grow. And we know that teachers and administrators care deeply about all of their students and want them to succeed in school and life, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta, head of the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division. Our guidance sends a clear message to transgender students across the country: here in America, you are safe, you are protected and you belong  just as you are. We look forward to working with school officials to make the promise of equal opportunity a reality for all of our children.Our federal civil rights law guarantees all students, including transgender students, the opportunity to participate equally in school programs and activities without sex discrimination as a core civil right, said Department of Education Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights Catherine E. Lhamon. This guidance answers questions schools have been asking, with a goal to ensure that all students are treated equally consistent with their gender identity. We look forward to continuing to work with schools and school communities to satisfy Congress promise of equality for all.The guidance explains that when students or their parents, as appropriate, notify a school that a student is transgender, the school must treat the student consistent with the students gender identity. A school may not require transgender students to have a medical diagnosis, undergo any medical treatment, or produce a birth certificate or other identification document before treating them consistent with their gender identity.The guidance also explains schools obligations to:At the same time, the guidance makes clear that schools can provide additional privacy options to any student for any reason. The guidance does not require any student to use shared bathrooms or changing spaces, when, for example, there are other appropriate options available; and schools can also take steps to increase privacy within shared facilities.NoneMany parents, schools and districts have raised questions about this area of civil rights law. Together, these documents will help navigate what may be a new terrain for some.NoneNoneNoneNoneNone