Fuyi Sun, aka Frank, 53, a citizen of the Peoples Republic of China (China), was sentenced today to three years in prison for violating the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA) in connection with a scheme to illegally export to China, without a license, high-grade carbon fiber, which is used primarily in aerospace and military applications. Sun pleaded guilty on April 21.NoneToday, Sun is being held accountable for attempting to procure high grade carbon fiber  a material which has dual aerospace and defense applications  for a source he identified as the Chinese military, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Boente. Identifying and prosecuting those who seek to violate IEEPA and other laws designed to protect our strategic commodities from those who may wish us harm remains a top priority of the National Security Division.For nearly five years, Fuyi Sun tried to skirt U.S. export laws to obtain high-gradecarbon fiber for the Chinese government. He spent thousands of dollars and took years of covert actions to avoid detection of his plan to purchase this highly protected material, said Acting U.S. Attorney Kim. Unbeknownst to Sun, however, he wasnt making a deal with an unscrupulous company  he was dealing with undercover federal law enforcement agents, who foiled his clandestine plot.According to the allegations contained in the Complaint and Indictment filed against Sun, and statements made in court filings and proceedings in open court:NoneNoneNoneOn April 12, 2016, Sun agreed to purchase two cases of M60 Carbon Fiber from the UC Company. On that date, Sun paid the undercover agents purporting to represent the UC Company $23,000 in cash for the carbon fiber, as well as an additional $2,000 as compensation for the risk he believed the UC Company was taking to illegally export the carbon fiber to China without a license. Sun was arrested the next day.***NoneAssistant U.S. Attorneys Matthew Podolsky, Patrick Egan and Nick Lewin of the Southern District of New York, and Trial Attorney David Recker of the Counterintelligence and Export Control Section of the National Security Division are prosecuting the case.