  WASHINGTON -- Robert Corp, a mortgage underwriter in Syracuse, N.Y., has agreed to pay the United States close to $679,000 to settle allegations that he defrauded the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), the Justice Department announced today. This settlement resolves Corps liability under the False Claims Act, a federal statute that imposes triple damages and penalties for false claims made in connection with federal government programs.  The Justice Department filed suit against Corp in May 2008, alleging that he made false statements to HUD on an application for government insurance of a mortgage loan used to refinance the existing debt of Brylin Hospitals, a psychiatric and substance abuse hospital in Buffalo, N.Y. The mortgage insurance program authorizes HUD to guarantee mortgage loans used to refinance debt held by hospitals and other healthcare facilities. Corp allegedly overstated Brylin Hospitals existing debt in order to obtain a larger refinance loan, and HUD was required to pay more in mortgage insurance claims as a result of Corps allegedly false statements.  "Mortgage fraud is a top priority for this administration," said Tony West, Assistant Attorney General for the Department of Justices Civil Division. "We will aggressively pursue both individuals and corporations who defraud federal mortgage insurance programs, which are so important to this economy." Assistant Attorney General West noted that his case was a collaborative effort involving the Justice Departments Civil Division, HUDs Office of General Counsel  Office of Program Enforcement, and HUDs Office of the Inspector General in Buffalo, New York.  "We have no tolerance for those who try to cheat the Federal Housing Administration or the taxpayer," said FHA Commissioner David H. Stevens. "Its not just about protecting the financial health of the FHA insurance fund  this is about protecting each and every hospital and healthcare facility that looks to the FHA for safe and secure mortgage financing."