None  Rape is a devastating crime and we cant solve it unless we know the full extent of it, said Vice President Biden, a leader in the effort to end violence against women for over 20 years and author of the landmark Violence Against Women Act. This long-awaited change to the definition of rape is a victory for women and men across the country whose suffering has gone unaccounted for over 80 years.   These long overdue updates to the definition of rape will help ensure justice for those whose lives have been devastated by sexual violence and reflect the Department of Justices commitment to standing with rape victims, Attorney General Holder said. This new, more inclusive definition will provide us with a more accurate understanding of the scope and volume of these crimes.   The FBIs Criminal Justice Information Services (CJIS) Advisory Policy Board recently recommended the adoption of a revised definition of rape within the Summary Reporting System of theUniform Crime Reporting Program, said David Cuthbertson, FBI Assistant Director, CJIS Division. This definitional change was recently approved by FBI Director Robert S. Mueller.This change will give law enforcement the ability to report more complete rape offense data, as the new definition reflects the vast majority of state rape statutes.As we implement this change, the FBI is confident thatthe number of victims of this heinous crime will be more accurately reflected in national crime statistics.   The revised definition includes any gender of victim or perpetrator, and includes instances in which the victim is incapable of giving consent because of temporary or permanent mental or physical incapacity, including due to the influence of drugs or alcohol or because of age. The ability of the victim to give consent must be determined in accordance with state statute. Physical resistance from the victim is not required to demonstrate lack of consent. The new definition does not change federal or state criminal codes or impact charging and prosecution on the local level.      The revised definition of rape sends an important message to the broad range of rape victims that they are supported and to perpetrators that they will be held accountable, said Justice Department Director of the Office on Violence Against Women Susan B. Carbon. We are grateful for the dedicated work of all those involved in making and implementing the changes that reflect more accurately the devastating crime of rape.  T he longstanding, narrow definition of forcible rape, first established in 1927, is the carnal knowledge of a female, forcibly and against her will. It thus included only forcible male penile penetration of a female vagina and excluded oral and anal penetration; rape of males; penetration of the vagina and anus with an object or body part other than the penis; rape of females by females; and, non-forcible rape.  Police departments submit data on reported crimes and arrests to the UCR. The UCR data are reported nationally and used to measure and understand crime trends. In addition, the UCR program will also collect data based on the historical definition of rape, enabling law enforcement to track consistent trend data until the statistical differences between the old and new definitions are more fully understood.    NoneNone