The United States today filed a civil complaint on its own behalf and for the benefit of the Pueblo of Santa Clara in federal court in Albuquerque, New Mexico, against the city of Espaola, New Mexico. The complaint alleges that the city lacks valid rights-of-way for portions of its public water and sanitary sewer lines located on the Pueblos lands and is therefore trespassing on those lands. With the Pueblos consent, the city obtained rights-of-way in the early 1980s for the water and sewer lines under the Indian Right-of-Way Act and its implementing regulations, which authorize grants of easement across Indian lands. Those rights-of-way expired in 1994 and 2002. The complaint seeks to compel the city to comply with the Indian Right-of-Way Act by renewing its rights of way and compensating the Pueblo for the unauthorized use of the Pueblos property.NoneOn July 21, 2014, U.S. Attorney Damon P. Martinez for the District of New Mexico, sent a follow-up letter to the city, reporting that the citys Response to the Notice to Show Cause fails to provide evidence or argument to establish a legal basis for the citys presence on Pueblo property or otherwise establish that it is not in trespass. The city disagreed.In response to that letter, the city stated that no trespass has taken place and no compensation is due. On April 7, U.S. Attorney Martinez met with Espaolas mayor, Alice Lucero and the citys attorney to determine whether this dispute could be resolved through settlement without filing suit. The city stressed that its position on the trespass issue had not changed.Espaolas continuing denial of trespass on lands for which it previously paid and acquired valid rights-of-way and its refusal to comply with federal law precipitated todays filing.The United States takes seriously enforcement of the rule of law, particularly as it affects Indian Country, said Assistant Attorney General John C. Cruden for the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division. Compliance with the Indian Right-of-Way Act and other federal statutes is not optional, but a legal requirement that ensures Indian tribes retain control of their lands and resources.The filing of todays complaint is intended to bring the city of Espaola into compliance with federal law, said U.S. Attorney Martinez. The complaint was filed only after all other options for resolving this dispute had been exhausted. While previous discussions among the parties have failed to resolve this dispute, we are hopeful that meaningful discussions will be possible while the federal court action proceeds.Trial Attorney Samuel D. Gollis of the Indian Resources Section of the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division and Assistant U.S. Attorney Howard R. Thomas of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of New Mexico are representing the United States in this litigation.