NoneThis settlement is a great example of a cooperative, company-wide effort to reduce air pollution and will mean cleaner air for communities across the country, where glass manufacturing is currently a significant source of the air pollutants that cause serious lung and heart problems, said Attorney General John C. Cruden for the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division. We are also particularly grateful to the states of Iowa and New York, as well as the San Joaquin Valley Air Pollution Control District, all of whom were active partners in achieving this important outcome for the American people.Air pollution from flat glass facilities can impact communities hundreds of miles away, which is why todays announcement is so crucial to address pollution at the source and protect public health, said Assistant Administrator Cynthia Giles for EPAs Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance. By investing in pollution control equipment and funding a mitigation project that will protect the health of low-income residents, Guardian is setting an example for the flat glass industry for how to control harmful air emissions at its facilities.We applaud Guardian Industries, who today became an industry leader by committing to a substantial investment to reduce emissions of air pollutants that are harmful to human lungs, said U.S. Attorney Barbara L. McQuade for the Eastern District of Michigan. This agreement strikes the appropriate balance between promoting manufacturing and protecting the clean air that is essential to public health and Michigans future.NoneThe $150,000 mitigation project with the San Joaquin Air Pollution Control District will provide incentives to low-income residents living in the San Joaquin Valley to replace or retrofit inefficient, higher-polluting wood-burning appliances with cleaner-burning, more energy-efficient appliances. The San Joaquin Valley is an area with poor air quality.NoneNoneThe states of Iowa and New York actively participated in the settlement and will each receive $78,000 of the total penalty. The United States will receive $156,000. The San Joaquin Valley Air Pollution Control District also actively participated in the settlement.New Yorkers health, environment, and economy depend on clean air, said New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman. This settlement will ensure that the Guardian facility in Geneva operates in full compliance with air pollution laws. It will also significantly cut emissions from the facility, providing a breath of fresh air to New Yorkers living in the Finger Lakes region.The proposed consent decree was lodged today in United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan and is subject to a 30-day public comment period and final court approval.NoneNone