  BALTIMORE - U.S. District Judge J. Frederick Motz sentenced Irika Shipping S.A., a ship management corporation registered in Panama and doing business in Greece, today to pay a $4 million penalty, which includes a $3 million criminal fine and $1 million in organizational community service payments that will fund various marine environmental projects. Judge Motz also sentenced Irika to serve the maximum of five years probation, subject to following a compliance program that includes audits by an independent firm and oversight by a court appointed monitor.NoneNone  In Maryland, $750,000 of the criminal penalty will go to the congressionally established National Fish & Wildlife Foundation and be used for Chesapeake Bay projects. In Washington, $125,000 will go to environmental projects in and around the waters of Puget Sound and the Straits of Juan De Fuca. In Louisiana, $125,000 will go toward funding habitat conservation, protection, restoration, and management projects to benefit fish and wildlife resources and habitats.None  "Deliberate pollution and obstruction of justice are serious crimes that will be vigorously prosecuted," said Ignacia S. Moreno, Assistant Attorney General, Environment & Natural Resources, U.S. Department of Justice. "This company will now have significant oversight from outside auditors to make sure that it comes into full compliance."  "Irika Shipping blatantly violated the law by dumping oil in the ocean and then lying to the Coast Guard about it, completely ignoring the terms of its agreement following a previous prosecution for the same conduct" said Rod J. Rosenstein, U.S. Attorney for the District of Maryland. "As part of the punishment for this crime, Irika Shipping will pay a fine of $4 million, including $750,000 to be used directly to help protect the Chesapeake Bay, and Irika will remain under court supervision for five years."  "The Coast Guard's partnerships with local, state and federal agencies played a vital role in the investigation and prosecution of this case," said Coast Guard Capt. Mark O'Malley, Captain of the Port of Baltimore. "Let this serve as a wake-up call to other companies, or groups that are illegally dumping in our waters. The cost of the penalties and environmental damages far outweigh the cost of compliances."  "EPA is extremely pleased that part of the sentence will be used for projects to enhance the quality of the Chesapeake Bay, North Americas largest and most biologically diverse estuary," said Fred Burnside, Director of EPA's Office of Criminal Enforcement. "EPA recently announced its Chesapeake Bay Compliance and Enforcement Strategy, a multi-state, multi-year strategy which will guide the use of EPAs compliance and enforcement tools to target sources of pollution impairing the bay and it is appropriate to use fines from vessels that use the seas as dumping grounds to help protect the bay."  During a Coast Guard inspection on Jan. 8, 2010, the Coast Guard obtained photographs taken on the whistleblower crew members cell phone showing the use of a 103-foot long "magic hose" to bypass the ships oily water separator. The illicit bypass system used to discharge oily waste, including sludge, was routed through the ships boiler blow down system where any trace of oil could be expected to be steam cleaned away. The illegal discharges were concealed in a fraudulent oil record book, a required log in which all overboard discharges are to be recorded.  Irika Shipping admitted the following in a detailed joint factual statement:  As set forth in the plea agreement, Irika pleaded guilty in U.S. District Court in Baltimore to two counts of violating the Act to Prevent Pollution from Ships for failing to maintain an accurate oil record book and garbage record book; one count of obstruction of the Coast Guards inspection; three counts of concealing evidence; one count of making materially false statements; and one count of obstruction of justice. The maximum penalty for each of these felony offenses is $500,000 or up to twice the gross gain or loss from the offense.NoneNone  This prosecution was made possible through the combined efforts of the U.S. Coast Guard Sector Baltimore, the Coast Guard Investigative Service, Coast Guard Fifth District Legal Office, Coast Guard Office of Maritime and International Law, Coast Guard Office of Investigations and Analysis, Environmental Protection Agency Criminal Investigations Division with assistance from the U.S. Customs and Border Protection. The cases were prosecuted by Richard A. Udell, Senior Trial Attorney of the Environmental Crimes Section of the Justice Department; P. Michael Cunningham, Assistant U.S. Attorney in Baltimore; James Oesterle, Assistant U.S. Attorney in Seattle; and Dorothy Manning Taylor, Assistant U.S. Attorney in New Orleans.