  WASHINGTON - Ugochukwu Enwerem, aka Joseph Smith, was sentenced yesterday in U.S. District Court in Charlotte, N.C., to 108 months in prison for his role in an advance-fee fraud scheme, announced Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Criminal Division and Daniel S. Cortez, Deputy Chief Inspector of the U.S. Postal Inspection Service.   U.S. District Judge Graham C. Mullen also ordered Enwerem to serve three years of supervised release following his prison term.  In addition, Enwerem was ordered to forfeit $9,453,815 and to pay restitution in the same amount, jointly and severally with co-defendant Kent Okojie. None   Evidence at trial showed that between at least Aug. 25, 2004, and April 23, 2007, Enwerem and his coconspirators solicited individuals in the United States, Europe and Australia by sending spam emails informing potential victims that they had either won a foreign lottery, inherited a large sum of money from a long lost relative, or were eligible to recover outstanding construction contract payments.  When individuals responded to the emails, the defendants, posing as lawyers, bankers and European government officials, solicited fees from victims ostensibly to pay for things such as antiterrorism certificates, EU bank clearances, anti-money laundering certificates, and legal fees in order to secure their purported lotto winnings, inheritance or contract payments.      According to evidence presented at trial, Enwerem and Okojie instructed U.S. victims to wire funds, using Western Union and other money transfer services, to them and their designees in The Netherlands, Spain and the United Kingdom. According to trial testimony, at least 18 U.S. and international victims were defrauded of more than $9.5 million during the period when Enwerem was a member of the conspiracy.   The case was investigated by a team of U.S. Postal Inspectors working with the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and the Amsterdam Politie.   The case was prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Laura Perkins and Nicole H. Sprinzen of the Fraud Section.   Significant assistance was provided by the Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs. Assistance regarding forfeiture and restitution was provided by Assistant U.S. Attorney Benjamin Bain-Creed with the U.S. Attorneys Office in the Western District of North Carolina.   