A criminal information was filed today in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware against Roos Foods Inc., charging the company with the distribution of adulterated cheese in interstate commerce, the Department of Justice announced today. The company has signed a plea agreement in which it has agreed to plead guilty to a misdemeanor violation of the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (FDCA). In addition to the companys agreement to plead guilty, Roos, and its principals, Ana A. Roos and Virginia Mejia, have agreed to a proposed consent decree of permanent injunction.NoneWe must work to ensure that the food we buy is free from dangerous bacteria and is safe to eat, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer, head of the Justice Departments Civil Division. The Department of Justice will continue to work aggressively to combat and deter conduct leading to the distribution of adulterated food to consumers.It is cases like this that demonstrate the need for government regulations concerning food safety,  said U.S. Attorney Charles M. Oberly III for the District of Delaware. Fortunately, there were no serious or permanent injuries as a result of the marketing of contaminated cheese. Manufacturers of our nations food supplies must comply with the law and when violators are found they should expect to be prosecuted and, if necessary, put out of business.NoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneThe FDA will not tolerate food companies that fail to provide adequate safeguards and place the public health at risk by producing and shipping contaminated products, said FDAs Deputy Commissioner for Global Regulatory Operations and Policy Howard Sklamberg, J.D. We will continue to work with the Department of Justice to use the full force of our justice system against those that place profits over the health and safety of American consumers.The civil complaint alleges that Roos Foods and two individual defendants violated the FDCA by, among other things, introducing or delivering for introduction into interstate commerce articles of food that were adulterated in that the food was prepared, packed or held under insanitary conditions whereby it may have become contaminated with filth or rendered injurious to health. The proposed consent decree of permanent injunction requires the defendants to cease receiving, preparing, processing, packing, holding and distributing all food products unless and until the defendants bring their operations into compliance with the FDCA and its implementing regulations.The criminal case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Heide L. Herrmann of the Justice Departments Consumer Protection Branch and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Jennifer Welsh and Edmond Falgowski of the District of Delaware. They were assisted by Associate Chief Counsel Laura Pawloski of the Food and Drug Division, Office of General Counsel, Department of Health and Human Services. The case was investigated by the FDAs Office of Criminal Investigations.The government is represented in the civil case by Trial Attorney Megan Englehart of the Justice Departments Consumer Protection Branch and Assistant U.S. Attorney Patricia Hannigan of the District of Delaware, with the assistance of Associate Chief Counsel Shannon M. Singleton of the Food and Drug Division, Office of General Counsel, Department of Health and Human Services.A criminal information is merely an allegation and every defendant is presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.A civil complaint is merely a set of allegations that, if the case were to proceed to trial, the government would need to prove by a preponderance of the evidence.