A former Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS) supervisory special agent was sentenced in federal court today to 144 months in prison for disclosing sensitive law enforcement reports to a defense contractor who was the target of a criminal fraud investigation in exchange for cash, luxury travel and the services of prostitutes.Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Laura E. Duffy of the Southern District of California, Director Andrew Traver of the Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS), Director Dermot OReilly of the Department of Defenses (DoD) Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS) and Director Anita Bales of the Defense Contract Audit Agency made the announcement.John Bertrand Beliveau II, 47, of York, Pennsylvania, was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Janis L. Sammartino of the Southern District of California, who also ordered Beliveau to pay $20 million in restitution to the Navy. According to admissions made as part of his plea agreement, Beliveau helped former Glenn Defense Marine Asia (GDMA) CEO Leonard Francis perpetrate a massive fraud scheme on the U.S. Navy by providing information that allowed Francis to avoid, stall and thwart criminal investigations into misconduct by GDMA.Beliveau tarnished his NCIS badge and sold sensitive law enforcement information for envelopes of cash, luxury travel and tawdry entertainment, said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. His actions risked an important criminal investigation and the safety of witnesses who agreed to cooperate with law enforcement under the belief that their identities would be protected. Todays sentence reflects the gravity of those crimes and makes clear that we will not tolerate law enforcement corruption.John Beliveaus deceit was a devastating blow to the U.S. Navy and ultimately the nation that he was sworn to protect, said U.S. Attorney Duffy. While this disgraced agent serves what may be the longest prison sentence ever handed down to a federal agent in a corruption case, his colleagues are left to rebuild the trust and credibility that he singlehandedly destroyed.John Beliveaus reprehensible decision to provide sensitive information to the targets of ongoing fraud investigations in exchange for bribes tragically tarnished his badge and the reputation of NCIS, said Director Traver. It is impossible to quantify the extent or duration of the harm done by Beliveau, but holding him accountable will further signal that NCIS is committed to rebuilding the trust he damaged.Todays sentencing sends a resounding message that justice will be served regardless of rank or position." said Director OReilly. The conduct of former NCIS Supervisory Special Agent Beliveau is reprehensible. The foundation of our criminal justice system relies on the publics trust in the law enforcement community. Whenever a law enforcement member breaches that trust, it leaves an indelible stain on those who serve to enforce our nations laws. The Defense Criminal Investigative Service and its law enforcement partners will relentlessly pursue any individual who places at risk the safety and security of our armed forces personnel.We are proud to be part of the team that has been investigating the criminal allegations in the Glenn Defense Marine Asia case, said Director Bales. It is especially troubling that someone in his role is on the wrong side of the investigation.According to his plea agreement, Beliveau acknowledged that he regularly searched confidential NCIS databases for reports of investigations related to Francis and GDMA. Over the course of years, he helped Francis avoid multiple criminal investigations by providing copies of these reports. These reports not only tipped off Francis that he was the target of a criminal investigation, but provided sensitive law enforcement information about the ongoing investigation, including the identities of the subjects of the investigations; information about witnesses, including identifying information about cooperating witnesses and their testimony; the particular aspects of GDMAs billings that were of concern to the investigations; the fact that the investigations had obtained numerous email accounts and the identities of those accounts; the reports to prosecutors and their interactions with the investigations; and planned future investigative activities.Beliveau admitted that he attempted to cover up his involvement by asking Francis to delete incriminating emails and deactivate an email account, and warned Francis about indictments and a warrant on his email account.Beliveau also admitted that he counseled Francis on how to perpetuate his fraud scheme and evade detection. In July 2011, Beliveau advised Francis to respond to the pending NCIS investigation into GDMAs submission of a fraudulent claim to the U.S. Navy for dockage and wharfage fees for certain U.S. Navy ship visits to Thailand.In return for providing him with information, Francis provided Beliveau with envelopes containing cash, luxury travel from Virginia to Singapore, the Philippines and Thailand. On many occasions, beginning in 2008 and continuing through 2012, while Beliveau was posted in Singapore, Francis provided him with prostitutes, lavish dinners, entertainment and alcohol at high-end nightclubs. The tab for each of these outings routinely ran into the thousands of dollars.So far, a total of 16 individuals have been charged in connection with the GDMA corruption and fraud investigation. Including Beliveau, 11 of those are current or former U.S. Navy officials, including Admiral Robert Gilbeau, Captain (ret.) Michael Brooks, Lt. Commander Gentry Debord, Commander Bobby Pitts, Captain Daniel Dusek, Commander Michael Misiewicz, Lt. Commander Todd Malaki, Commander Jose Luis Sanchez, Petty Officer First Class Daniel Layug and Paul Simpkins, a former DoD civilian employee who oversaw contracting in Singapore.Gilbeau, Debord, Dusek, Misiewicz, Malaki, Beliveau, Sanchez, Layug and Simpkins have pleaded guilty. On Jan. 21, 2016, Layug was sentenced to 27 months in prison and a $15,000 fine; on Jan. 29, 2016, Malaki was sentenced to 40 months in prison and to pay $15,000 in restitution to the Navy and a $15,000 fine; on March 25, 2016, Dusek was sentenced to 46 months in prison and to pay $30,000 in restitution to the Navy and a $70,000 fine; and on April 29, 2016, Misiewicz was sentenced to 78 months in prison and to pay a fine of $100,000 and to pay $95,000 in restitution to the Navy. Gilbeau, Sanchez and Simpkins also await sentencing. Brooks and Pitts were charged in May 2016 and their cases are pending.Also charged are five GDMA executives: Francis, Alex Wisidagama, Ed Aruffo, Neil Peterson and Linda Raja. Wisidagama has pleaded guilty and was sentenced on March 18, 2016, to 63 months in prison and $34.8 million in restitution to the Navy. Francis and Aruffo have pleaded guilty and await sentencing; Petersons and Rajas cases are pending.DCIS, NCIS and the Defense Contract Audit Agency are investigating. Assistant Chief Brian R. Young of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Mark W. Pletcher and Patrick Hovakimian of the Southern District of California are prosecuting the case.None