  A Panamanian company that operated a 40,000-ton oil tanker ship that regularly made calls in multiple ports in Texas pleaded guilty today in federal court in Houston for deliberately concealing pollution discharges from the ship directly into the sea.None  According to a plea agreement filed with U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas, the company has agreed to pay a $1 million criminal fine along with a $250,000 community service payment to the congressionally-established National Marine Sanctuary Foundation. The money will be designated for use in the Flower Garden and Stetson Banks National Marine Sanctuary, headquartered in Galveston, Texas, to support the protection and preservation of natural and cultural resources located in and adjacent to the sanctuary.  "Stopping the illegal pollution from ships continues to be a priority for the Department," said John C. Cruden, Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division. "As long as companies continue to bypass this nations environmental laws, the department will continue to bring cases and seek justice for those involved."  "This case clearly demonstrates the Coast Guards commitment to work with our interagency partners to aggressively enforce all maritime anti-pollution and safety of life at sea laws. The breadth and magnitude of the investigation that underpinned the charges brought forth is a testament to the dedication of all persons who were involved in resolving this matter including the Coast Guard Investigative Service, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the U.S. Department of Justice," said Rear Admiral Mary Landry, Eighth District Coast Guard commander.  "The seas must be protected and commercial vessels must operate safely and lawfully," said Paula D. Brown, Acting Special Agent in Charge for Environmental Protection Agencys Criminal Investigation Division in Houston. "Those who use the oceans or our waters as dumping grounds for waste oil and sludge will be vigorously prosecuted."  According to the joint factual statement, from December 2006 until February 2009, senior engineering officers and crewmembers acting on behalf of Styga installed a bypass pipe known as a "magic pipe" in order to avoid the pollution control equipment on-board the ship. The senior engineers then directed junior engineers to connect the so-called "magic pipe" and deliberately discharge sludge and oily waste directly into the ocean.None  According to court documents, the engineers knowingly failed to make the required entries into the oil record book including the fact that sludge and oily waste had been discharged directly into the ocean using the "magic pipe" and circumventing the internationally required pollution control equipment. The senior engineers also made false entries in the oil record book to conceal the fact that the pollution control equipment had not been used. The crewmembers then attempted to conceal the discharges on Feb. 19, 2009, during a Coast Guard boarding at the port in Texas City, by providing the falsified oil record book to the boarding crew.  The investigation was conducted by the Coast Guard Marine Safety Unit Texas City, Texas; Coast Guard Investigative Service in Houston, and the Environmental Protection Agency Criminal Investigation Division in Houston. The case is being prosecuted by the Justice Departments Environmental Crimes Section.