The president of an investment and financial services firm was sentenced today to 120 months in prison for evading taxes and defrauding dozens of investors in New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Texas and elsewhere of $5 million, announced by U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman for the District of New Jersey.Everett C. Miller, 45, of Marlton, New Jersey, previously pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Renee Marie Bumb to information charging him with one count of securities fraud and one count of tax evasion. Judge Bumb imposed the sentence today in Camden federal court.According to documents filed in this case and statements made in court: Miller was the founder, chief executive officer, president, principal and sole owner of Carr Miller Capital LLC (CMC), an investment and financial services firm based in Marlton, New Jersey. Miller and others solicited investments through the firm from individuals located in New Jersey, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, Arkansas, Texas and elsewhere. CMC had more than 30 affiliates and related entities and more than 75 related bank accounts. Miller controlled the firms finances and established himself as synonymous with CMC. Prior to founding CMC in June 2006, Miller was a registered financial advisor at several financial institutions.Miller admitted that from June 2006 through December 2010, he and others issued promissory notes to more than 190 investors across the United States and Miller and CMC received $41.2 million from these investors. The notes were provided as securities, but Miller and CMC never registered the notes as securities with any federal or state agency, nor were the notes exempt from such registration requirements. The notes had a term of nine months and promised the investors returns of seven to 20 percent per year and a return of the principal investment at the end of the nine-month period.Miller and others falsely represented to the investors that their money would be invested in certain ways, but the investors were not provided with material information about their investments or were misled about the risks of their investments. Miller commingled and pooled the investors monies into one of CMCs 75 related bank accounts. Unbeknown to the investors, Miller used some of the monies in the following ways: to repay prior investors, most in Ponzi scheme fashion, to pay CMC and its related entities payrolls and operating expenses and to support Millers lifestyle. Millers purchases included luxury automobiles; home furnishings and electronic equipment; tickets to entertainment and sporting events; travel, lodging and vacations; meals, entertainment, retail shopping; and groceries.On Aug. 11, 2009, the Arkansas Securities Department (ASD) initiated an investigation of Miller, CMC and others for selling unregistered securities to investors in the form of the promissory notes. Following the investigation, the ASD issued a cease-and-desist order against Miller, CMC and others from selling the notes.From August 2009 through December 2010, despite knowing about the ASDs investigation of the promissory notes and CMCs inability to pay either the interest or the principal on them, Miller and others continued to sell the notes as unregistered securities to investors. They issued notes to approximately 50 new investors, but never returned any of the principal to the new investors.Miller admitted that for calendar years 2007, 2008 and 2009, he intentionally failed to provide the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) with any information regarding the proceeds that he personally received in connection with his fraudulent scheme. Miller failed to disclose $218,770, $244,879 and $199,507 for 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. In total, Miller admitted failing to report $663,156 in taxable income to the IRS, resulting in a tax loss to the government of $47,342.At the plea proceeding, Judge Bumb entered a consent judgment and order of forfeiture in the amount of $4,999,400, which constitutes the proceeds Miller obtained as a result of the securities fraud.In addition to the prison term, Judge Bumb sentenced Miller to three years of supervised release and ordered him to pay restitution of $22.34 million.U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents with the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Richard M. Frankel in Newark, New Jersey; IRS-Criminal Investigation, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Jonathan D. Larson; and the U.S. Postal Inspection Service, under the direction of Inspector in Charge Maria L. Kelokates, for the investigation leading to todays sentencing. He also thanked the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority  Criminal Prosecution Assistance Group and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commissions Philadelphia Office for its assistance with this investigation. In addition, he thanked the New Jersey Securities Fraud Prosecution Section, the Arkansas Securities Department and the Texas State Securities Board for their roles in the investigation.The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorney Shirley U. Emehelu of the Economic Crimes Unit in Newark, New Jersey.None