  WASHINGTON  A patient recruiter of a Miami health care agency pleaded guilty yesterday for her participation in a $25 million home health Medicare fraud scheme, announced the Department of Justice, the FBI and the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS).None None   As a result of Torres-Cruzs participation in the illegal scheme, Medicare was billed approximately $195,000 for purported home health care services that were not medically necessary and/or were not rendered.   Seventeen other co-conspirators have pleaded guilty for their roles in the fraud scheme, including Dr. Nunez.      Sentencing has been scheduled for Jan. 30, 2012.   The charge of conspiracy to commit health care fraud carries a maximum prison sentence of 10 years and the charge of solicitation of health care kickbacks carries a maximum prison sentence of five years.   The defendant also face fines and terms of supervised release, as well as forfeiture of any property or proceeds derived from her criminal activities.   Todays charges were announced by Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Criminal Division; U.S. Attorney Wifredo A. Ferrer of the Southern District of Florida; John V. Gillies, Special Agent-in-Charge of the FBIs Miami field office; and Special Agent-in-Charge Christopher Dennis of the HHS Office of Inspector General (HHS-OIG), Office of Investigations Miami office.  This case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Joseph S. Beemsterboer and Jonathan Baum of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section.   The case was investigated by the FBI and HHS-OIG, and was brought as part of the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, supervised by the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of Miami.   Since their inception in March 2007, Medicare Fraud Strike Force operations in nine locations have charged more than 1,140 defendants who collectively have falsely billed the Medicare program for more than $2.9 billion.   In addition, the HHS Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, working in conjunction with the HHS-OIG, are taking steps to increase accountability and decrease the presence of fraudulent providers. None