A federal judge in Boston formally sentenced Dzhokhar A. Tsarnaev on June 24, for his role in using weapons of mass destruction at the 2013 Boston Marathon. U.S. District Judge George A. OToole of the District of Massachusetts imposed a sentence of death and multiple consecutive life sentences.U.S. Attorney Carmen M. Ortiz of the District of Massachusetts, Assistant Attorney General for National Security John P. Carlin, Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, Special Agent in Charge Vincent B. Lisi of the FBIs Boston Division, Commissioner William B. Evans of the Boston Police Department, Colonel Timothy P. Alben of the Massachusetts State Police, Special Agent in Charge Daniel J. Kumor of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosivess Boston Field Division and Deputy Special Agent in Charge Michael Shea of Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations (ICE-HSI) in Boston made the announcement.In May 2014, a federal jury in Boston recommended that Tsarnaev be sentenced to death. The counts on which the jury recommended a death sentence all related to the pressure cooker bomb Tsarnaev planted and detonated in front of the Forum restaurant, killing Lingzi Lu and Martin Richard. The same jury convicted Tsarnaev on all 30 counts of the indictment on April 8, 2015.Tsarnaev, 21, a U.S. citizen formerly residing in Cambridge, Massachusetts, was convicted of use of a weapon of mass destruction resulting in death and conspiracy; bombing of a place of public use resulting in death and conspiracy; malicious destruction of property resulting in death and conspiracy; use of a firearm during and in relation to a crime of violence; use of a firearm during and in relation to a crime of violence causing death; carjacking resulting in serious bodily injury; interference with commerce by threats or violence; and aiding and abetting.NoneThis investigation was conducted by the FBIs Boston Division, Boston Police Department, Massachusetts State Police, Department of Justices National Security Division and member agencies of the Boston Joint Terrorism Task Force, including the ATF, HSI, U.S. Marshals Service, Massachusetts Bay Transit Authority and others. In addition, the Watertown Police Department; the Cambridge, Massachusetts, Police Department; the MIT Police Department; the Boston Fire Department; the National Guard and police, fire and emergency responders from across Massachusetts and New England played critical roles in the investigation and response.This case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys William Weinreb, Aloke Chakravarty and Nadine Pellegrini of the District of Massachusetts's Anti-Terrorism and National Security Unit, and Trial Attorney Steve Mellin of the Justice Departments Capital Case Section. Vital assistance was also provided by attorneys from the National Security Divisions Counterterrorism Section and the Criminal Divisions Capital Case Section.