The government has intervened in two lawsuits against a Florida cardiologist, Dr. Asad Qamar, and his physician group, the Institute for Cardiovascular Excellence PLLC (ICE), alleging that Qamar and ICE billed Medicare for medically unnecessary peripheral artery interventions and paid kickbacks to patients by waiving Medicare copayments irrespective of financial hardship, the Justice Department announced today.Performing medically unnecessary procedures puts patients at risk and contributes to the soaring costs of health care, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Joyce R. Branda for the Justice Departments Civil Division. Todays action evidences the Department of Justices efforts both to safeguard federal health care program beneficiaries and to protect public funds.The lawsuits allege that Qamar and ICE performed excessive and medically unnecessary peripheral artery interventional services and affiliated procedures on Medicare patients. One of the lawsuits further alleges that Qamar induced patients to undergo those unnecessary procedures by routinely waiving the 20 percent Medicare copayment, regardless of the patients financial need.Physicians should make medical decisions on the basis of their patients needs, said U.S. Attorney A. Lee Bentley III for the Middle District of Florida. Performing medically unnecessary procedures solely to line a physicians pockets strains our nations health care system, and can also jeopardize the health and safety of patients. Fighting Medicare and other health care fraud is one of our offices most important priorities.NonePhysicians who try to enrich themselves and their practices by performing medically unnecessary, invasive procedures can cause patients very serious health issues, waste millions in taxpayer dollars each year, and undercut the publics trust in the medical profession,said Special Agent in Charge Derrick L. Jackson of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services-Office of Inspector General (HHS-OIG). We will continue to work with our law enforcement partners to protect beneficiaries and holdhealth careproviders accountable for such outrageous fraud schemes.This matter illustrates the governments emphasis on combating health care fraud and marks another achievement for the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT) initiative, which was announced in May 2009 by the Attorney General and the Secretary of Health and Human Services. The partnership between the two departments has focused efforts to reduce and prevent Medicare and Medicaid financial fraud through enhanced cooperation. One of the most powerful tools in this effort is the False Claims Act. Since January 2009, the Justice Department has recovered a total of more than $23.3 billion through False Claims Act cases, with more than $14.9 billion of that amount recovered in cases involving fraud against federal health care programs.The investigation was conducted by HHS-OIG, the Civil Divisions Commercial Litigation Branch and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Middle District of Florida. The claims asserted by the government are allegations only and there has been no determination of liability.