  U.S. District Court Judge Susan C. Bucklew sentenced Andrew Blane Fields, 62, of Lutz, Fla., to serve 33 years and nine months in prison followed by five years of supervised release, the Justice Department announced today. A jury convicted Fields on Nov. 6, 2013, of five counts of sex trafficking by force, fraud and coercion, and three narcotics counts arising from his distribution of controlled substances to the sex trafficking victims as part of his scheme of coercion.   The Civil Rights Division is committed to pursuing justice on behalf of vulnerable members of our society, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Jocelyn Samuels for the Civil Rights Division. This defendant preyed on young women living in the shadows and on the margins. Using false promises to lure them in, he cruelly exploited them for his own profit, destroying them with drugs and selling their bodies for sex. This sentence sends a clear message that the United States will not tolerate modern-day slavery and will work tirelessly to restore the rights and dignity of its victims.   The courts sentence clearly reflects the seriousness of these awful sex trafficking crimes, said U.S. Attorney A. Lee Bentley III for the Middle District of Florida. We will continue to work with the Clearwater Area Human Trafficking Task Force and other law enforcement partners throughout the District to prosecute sex traffickers and vindicate victims rights.   During the trial, five victims recounted their intense fear of withdrawal sickness and related that Fields manipulated that fear to coerce them to perform acts of prostitution for the defendants profit in exchange for another dose of the addictive drugs. One of the victims testified that Fields, while watching her suffer through the onset of the excruciating physical and psychological withdrawal symptoms, would compel her to serve another prostitution client by saying, Ill give you one pill. Im not going to give you another until you get up and go to work. And you know you need another.   The case was investigated jointly by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and the Clearwater, Fla., Police Department through their participation on the Clearwater Area Human Trafficking Task Force.   Andrew Fields used prescription pills to manipulate and coerce his victims toprostitute themselves for his own financial gain, said Deputy Special Agent in Charge Shane Folden of Homeland Security Investigations Tampa. Even though we cant take away the physical and psychological damage his victims have endured, this nearly 34-year sentence ensures that additional women wont fall prey to his sex trafficking scheme.   Our agency takes these human trafficking cases very seriously because these perpetrators commit unfathomable crimes, said Chief Anthony Holloway for the Clearwater Police Department. This defendant took over the lives of these women. We cannot  and will not  let that happen.   Evidence presented at trial showed that Fields identified vulnerable young women, one just 18 years old, who were prostituting or working as exotic dancers, using online advertisements to lure them with promises of safe transportation and protection. The defendant then provided the victims with addictive drugs such as Oxycodone, Dilaudid and Morphine, at levels designed to intensify their dependency and addiction. The evidence showed that the defendant rapidly increased the victims drug use; while some victims initially used drugs only occasionally and others used a few pills a day, Fields escalated their drug use to full-blown addiction, with some victims requiring up to 15 pills a day to stave off withdrawal symptoms. The evidence showed that Fields acquired the drugs at low costs and charged the victims inflated prices to saddle them with mounting drug debts. He then manipulated their fear of withdrawal symptoms to compel them to prostitute and turn over all proceeds to him, leaving them with no money, no other access to the addictive drugs and fully dependent on Fields to avert withdrawal sickness. At times, Fields demanded that the victims engage in sexual acts with him to pay down the debts.   Evidence seized from Fields home included over 4,000 prescription pills, notebooks in which he recorded the victims debts, advertisements for prostitution, cash, condoms and books about pimping and prescription drugs.   Surveillance camera video footage admitted into evidence showed Fields entering a hospital room in the middle of the night to deliver drugs to one of the victims. The video showed Fields handing the woman pills and another object which she hid under her bed sheet. At trial, the victim testified that the pills were Dilaudid and the other object was a syringe to inject the drug intravenously.   Another victim testified that Fields threatened to contact her probation officer and to have her probation violated if she did not continue to engage in prostitution for his profit. The evidence established that Fields caused her probation to be violated when she did not submit to his demands that she continue prostituting. The defendant contacted the victim while she was incarcerated to pressure her to recruit other victims, then immediately delivered addictive drugs to her upon her release from prison.   The case was investigated by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcements (ICE) Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) and the Clearwater Police Department, with assistance from members of the Clearwater Area Human Trafficking Task Force. Assistant U.S. Attorney Josephine W. Thomas and Trial Attorney William E. Nolan of the Civil Rights Divisions Human Trafficking Prosecution Unit prosecuted the case.