  C.R. Bard Inc. has agreed to pay the U nited States $48.26 million to resolve claims that it knowingly caused false claims to be submitted to the Medicare program for brachytherapy seeds used to treat prostate cancer in violation of the False Claims Act. Bard is a New Jersey based corporation that develops, manufacturers, and markets medical products used for a variety of conditions, including prostate cancer.  The settlement requires that Bard pay $48.26 million and it resolves claims relating to Bards sale of brachytherapy seeds, a form of radiation therapy, to hospitals. The United States alleged that from 1998 to 2006, Bard provided illegal remuneration to customers and physicians to induce them to purchase Bards seeds, in violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute. The illegal remuneration allegedly took the form of certain grants, guaranteed minimum rebates, conference fees, marketing assistance and/or free medical equipment that Bard paid to customers and/or physicians who used the seeds to perform treatment for prostate cancer. Hospitals ultimately submitted bills to Medicare for these seeds, which the government alleged were rendered false by Bards illegal kickback activity. The government alleged that Bard was liable under the False Claims Act for causing the submission of those false claims.  This settlement is part of the United States on-going effort to comb at the payment of illegal kickbacks to health care providers, said Stuart F. Delery, Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Department of Justices Civil Division. Such illegal payments subvert the medical marketplace and provide an unfair advantage to those who break the law.  Illegal kickbacks in any form pervert our health care system, which is designed to insure that health care providers make decisions based solely on what is best for the patient, said U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia Sally Quillian Yates.  We will continue to work with our various law enforcement partners in the pursuit of those who abuse publicly funded health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, through criminal prosecutions or civil settlements under the False Claims Act, stated Mark F. Giuliano, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office. Such abuses as weve seen in this case will not be tolerated.  Medicare beneficiaries should never have to question whether treatment recommendations are based on their doctors best financial interests rather than their best medical advice, said Daniel R. Levinson, Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Companies paying these kickback bribes should expect aggressive investigation and prosecution.  The civil settlement resolves a lawsuit filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia by Julie Darity, a former Bard manager for brachytherapy contracts administration under the qui tam, or whistleblower provisions, of the False Claims Act. United States ex rel. Darity v. C.R. Bard, Inc., et al., Civ. Action No. 1:06-cv-0208-SCJ (N.D. Ga.). Under the False Claims Act, private citizens may bring suit for false claims on behalf of the United States and share in any recovery obtained by the government. The former manager will receive $10,134,600 as her share of the civil settlement.None  These settlements were the result of a coordinated effort by the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Northern District of Georgia; the Department of Justice, Civil Division, Commercial Litigation Branch; the FBI and HHS-OIG, in investigating the allegations in this case.