Yesterday, a Austin, Texas, businessman was convicted by a federal jury on four counts of filing false tax returns and corruptly endeavoring to obstruct and impede the due administration of the internal revenue laws, announced Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Caroline D. Ciraolo, head of the Justice Departments Tax Division.According to the evidence presented at trial, Victor Antolik owned and operated a commercial janitorial business in Austin, San Antonio and Houston, Texas, for which he used a variety of business names, including Diversified Building Services Inc., DBS Services Inc., Partners in Cleaning, PIC Building Services and BSI Industries. Antolik also earned income as a real estate agent, real estate broker and property manager. Antolik earned a portion of his real estate income through his companies SGN Realty Inc. and Signature Realty Services. Antolik submitted to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) four false individual income tax returns on which he underreported his income for tax years 2004, 2007 and 2008. In addition, between 1998 and 2014, Antolik attempted to obstruct the IRS by, among other things, attaching altered Forms W-2 and 1099 to his tax returns, providing false information to his accountants that were used to prepare both corporate and individual income tax returns on his behalf and using nominees to conceal income and assets.The jurys verdict holds Mr. Antolik accountable for his decades-long effort to conceal income and obstruct the IRS, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Ciraolo. Individuals who file false tax returns and fail to pay their fair share threaten the integrity of our nations tax system. The department, working with its partners at the IRS, remains committed to prosecuting those individuals who act as though they are above the law.   Victor Antoliks attempts to hide his income from the IRS finally caught up with him as a jury found him guilty of filing false returns and impeding the due administration of the IRS, said Chief Richard Weber of the IRS-Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI). Individuals who file false returns to avoid paying their fair share of taxes are simply stealing from honest American taxpayers. The IRS and Department of Justice remain determined and vigilant in ferreting out such schemes and bringing these criminals to justice.Antolik faces a statutory maximum sentence of three years in prison on each count, as well as a term of supervised release and monetary penalties. Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Ciraolo thanked agents of the IRS-CI, who investigated the case and Tax Division Trial Attorneys Robert A. Kemins and David Zisserson, who prosecuted the case. Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Ciraolo also thanked the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Western District of Texas for their substantial assistance. Additional information about the Tax Division and its enforcement efforts may be found on the divisions website.