The Justice Department announced today that Southport Bank of Kenosha, Wis., will pay $687,000 to African-American and Hispanic wholesale mortgage borrowers as part of a settlement to resolve allegations that it engaged in a pattern or practice of discrimination on the basis of race and national origin. None The lawsuit originated from a 2012 referral by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) to the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division. Southport is regulated by the FDIC. The proceeds of the settlement will be used to compensate the African-American and Hispanic victims of Southports alleged discrimination. Under the proposed settlement, a list of individual victims will be identified by the United States. The settlement requires borrowers who are eligible for compensation to be notified by the bank and provides for monitoring of the compensation process by the department. Southport is not currently engaged in the business of wholesale home mortgage lending, but the settlement provides that if it re-enters that business, the bank will implement policies, practices and monitoring designed to prevent and detect potential fair lending violations. Discrimination on the basis of race and national origin in the extension of credit, including by wholesale lenders, must be eliminated, said Jocelyn Samuels, Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division. We commend Southport for working cooperatively with the Justice Department in reaching an appropriate resolution of this case. The United States Department of Justice, through both the Civil Rights Division and my office, remains steadfast in its commitment to identifying, investigating, and addressing patterns and practices of racial and national origin bias in the extension and management of mortgage loans said James L. Santelle, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Wisconsin. As reflected by todays settlement, we are animated not only by the all-important mandates of the Fair Housing Act and the Equal Credit Opportunity Act but also by our much-related interest in ensuring that all Americans are afforded economic opportunities and financial options in this most basic aspect of lifehousing. I join the Assistant Attorney General in recognizing the leadership of the Southport Bank of Kenosha for their cooperation in accomplishing this settlement that compensates members of our African-American and Hispanic communities for the discrimination that they suffered. None None  None 