Earlier today, United States Congressman Michael Grimm pleaded guilty at the federal courthouse in Brooklyn, New York, to aiding and assisting the preparation of a false tax return. Since 2011, Grimm has served as a member of the United States House of Representatives representing New Yorks 11th Congressional District, which includes the borough of Staten Island and parts of the borough of Brooklyn, in New York City. When sentenced, Grimm faces a prison term of up to three years. In connection with his guilty plea, Grimm also agreed to pay restitution to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance, and the New York State Insurance Fund (NYSIF). Todays guilty plea proceeding took place before the Honorable Pamela K. Chen, United States District Judge, Eastern District of New York.The guilty plea was announced by Loretta E. Lynch, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York, George Venizelos, Assistant Director-in-Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), New York Field Office, and Richard Weber, Chief, IRS- Criminal Investigation.With todays guilty plea, Michael Grimm has admitted that while running his business he chose lies and deception over honest dealings with federal and state authorities as well as his own employees. In addition to pleading guilty to causing the filing of a false tax return for his restaurant, Grimm has signed a statement admitting to the conduct underlying every charge filed against him. Michael Grimm has now publicly admitted that he hired unauthorized workers whom he paid off the books in cash, took deliberate steps to obstruct the federal and state governments from collecting taxes he properly owed, cheated New York State out of workers compensation insurance premiums, caused numerous false business and personal tax returns to be filed for several years, and lied under oath to cover up his crimes. He will now be held to account for all of his actions that led to those charges, said U.S. Attorney Lynch. This guilty plea makes clear that we and our partners in the FBI and the IRS will vigorously investigate and prosecute fraud wherever we find it, and that no one is above the law. Ms. Lynch expressed her appreciation to the Public Integrity Section of Department of Justice, the Northern Criminal Enforcement Section of the Tax Division of the Department of Justice, the New York State Insurance Fund, the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance, and the New York State Department of Labor for their assistance in the investigation.FBI Assistant Director-in-Charge Venizelos stated, As an elected official, Grimm was responsible for deciding how taxpayers' money should be spent, yet he chose not to pay his fair share of taxes while operating his business. Adding insult to injury, while serving as a Member of Congress, Grimm lied under oath in an effort to conceal his criminal activity. The public expects their elected officials at all levels of government to behave honorably, or at a minimum, lawfully. As his guilty plea demonstrates, Grimm put self-interest above public service.Richard Weber, Chief, IRS-Criminal Investigation stated, The public expects their elected officials to meet their tax obligations before they take office, while they hold office and when they leave office. Today, Mr. Grimm admitted to breaching the public's trust by fraudulently underreporting $900,000 in restaurant gross receipts and lowering payroll taxes through 'off-the-book' payments. As the only law enforcement agency with the authority to investigate federal tax crimes, IRS-Criminal Investigation is committed to ensuring that everyone pays their fair share. In the eyes of the law, public officials are not above the citizens they serve.In connection with his guilty plea, Grimm entered into a stipulation of facts, filed with the Court today, that acknowledged the scope of his criminal conduct. As part of that stipulation of facts, Grimm admitted that:NoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneIn total, Grimms conduct caused federal and New York State tax and NYSIF premium losses between $80,000 and $200,000.Moreover, while a Member of Congress in January 2013, Grimm was deposed under oath by the attorney of a former employee in connection with a civil lawsuit relating to the labor practices at Healthalicious in which Grimm was a defendant. The lawsuit was pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. Today, as part of the stipulation of facts, Grimm admitted to testifying during the deposition to things that, at the time, he knew to be false. Specifically, Grimm testified during the deposition that Healthalicious employees had not been paid in cash, when he knew that restaurant employees had in fact been paid off the books in cash. Similarly, Grimm testified that, to the extent he used email in operating Healthalicious, he used a Yahoo account to which he no longer had access. Today, Grimm admitted that, at the time of the deposition, he in fact had access to an AOL account which he had used for Healthalicious related business and which contained many emails related to the restaurant.The governments case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Anthony M. Capozzolo, James D. Gatta, and Nathan Reilly.