First Annual Recovery to Exceed $5 Billion; Over 700 Whistleblower Lawsuits for Second Consecutive YearThe U.S. Department of Justice obtained a record $5.69 billion in settlements and judgments from civil cases involving fraud and false claims against the government in the fiscal year ending September 30, Acting Associate Attorney General Stuart F. Delery and Acting Assistant Attorney General Joyce R. Branda for the Civil Division announced today. This is the first time the department has exceeded $5 billion in cases under the False Claims Act, and brings total recoveries from January 2009 through the end of the fiscal year to $22.75 billion  more than half the recoveries since Congress amended the False Claims Act 28years ago to strengthen the statute and increase the incentives for whistleblowers to file suit.In the past three years, we have achieved the three largest annual recoveries ever recorded under the statute, said Acting Associate Attorney General Delery. This sustained success demonstrates that these figures result not only from large individual matters, but from a continuous commitment year after year to pursue those who defraud taxpayers and to remain vigilant in identifying those who would unlawfully obtain money from the federal fisc.The recoveries reflect the administrations priorities to hold the financial industry accountable for its part in the gross misconduct that led to the housing and mortgage crisis, and to continue to root out fraud in the health care industry. In fiscal year 2014, the department recovered an unprecedented $3.1 billion from banks and other financial institutions involved in making false claims for federally insured mortgages and loans. False claims against federal health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid accounted for another $2.3 billion. These amounts reflect federal losses only. In many of these cases, the department was instrumental in recovering additional billions of dollars for consumers and state treasuries.It has been an extraordinary year for civil fraud recoveries, but the true significance is not in breaking records or making history; it is in the billions of dollars restored to the federal treasury, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Branda. The False Claims Act was enacted both to protect vital taxpayer dollars and deter those who would misuse public funds. The department will continue to enforce the law aggressively to ensure the integrity of government programs designed to keep us safer, healthier and economically more prosperous.The False Claims Act is the governments primary civil remedy to redress false claims for government funds and property under government contracts, including national security and defense contracts, as well as under government programs as varied as Medicare, veterans benefits, federally insured loans and mortgages, transportation and research grants, agricultural supports, school lunches and disaster assistance. With more whistleblowers coming forward since the act was strengthened in 1986, the government opened more investigations, which led to the surge in recoveries we see today.NoneHousing and Mortgage FraudNoneBank of America paid $1.85 billion to settle allegations of false claims in connection with the banks practices in underwriting, origination and quality control of residential mortgages the bank sold to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, as well as loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA). The settlement also covered the banks alleged submission of inflated insurance claims to the FHA. Bank of America acknowledged that it had misrepresented the quality of loans to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the FHA. The $1.85 billion paid by Bank of America to settle False Claims Act allegations was part of a broader settlement that included a $5billion penalty under the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act (FIRREA) and $7 billion in relief to consumers harmed by the financial crisis to redress abuses in residential mortgage backed security practices. In total, Bank of America agreed to pay $16.65 billion under the global resolution  the largest civil settlement with a single entity in the departments history.SunTrust paid $418 million to settle allegations of false claims in connection with mortgages insured by the FHA. SunTrust admitted that from 2006 to 2012, it originated and underwrote FHA-insured mortgages that did not qualify for federal insurance under the FHA program, failed to institute an effective quality control program to identify noncompliant loans and failed to report the noncompliant loans it did identify to the FHA as required. In addition to the $418 million restored to the federal treasury, SunTrust agreed to pay $500million in relief to struggling homeowners by various means, including reducing the principal on mortgages for borrowers who are at risk of default and reducing interest rates for homeowners who are current but underwater on their mortgages. SunTrust also agreed to pay $10million to the federal government and an additional $40 million to state governments to remedy the effects of its improper loan servicing practices. This brings SunTrusts total payment under the settlement to redress its abusive mortgage origination and servicing practices to $968million.NoneHealth Care Fraud NoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneOther Fraud Recoveries and ActionsAlthough mortgage, housing and health care fraud dominated recoveries for fiscal year 2014, the department has aggressively pursued fraud in government procurement and other federal programs.NoneIn addition, the government filed lawsuits against a number of government contractors.NoneNoneNoneRecoveries in Whistleblower SuitsNoneNoneWe acknowledge the men and women who have come forward to blow the whistle on those who would commit fraud on our government programs, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Branda. In strengthening and protecting the False Claims Act, Congress has given us the law enforcement tools that are so essential to guarding the treasury and deterring others from exploiting and misusing taxpayer dollars. We are grateful for their continued support.In 1986, Senator Charles Grassley and Representative Howard Berman led successful efforts in Congress to amend the False Claims Act to, among other things, encourage whistleblowers to come forward with allegations of fraud. In 2009, Senator Patrick J. Leahy, along with Senator Grassley and Representative Berman, championed the Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act of 2009, which made additional improvements to the False Claims Act and other fraud statutes. And in 2010, the passage of the Affordable Care Act provided additional inducements and protections for whistleblowers and strengthened the provisions of the federal health care Anti-Kickback Statute.Acting Assistant Attorney General Branda also expressed her deep appreciation for the many dedicated public servants who investigated and pursued these cases  the attorneys, investigators, auditors and other agency personnel throughout the Civil Division and the U.S. Attorneys Offices, as well as the agency Offices of Inspector General, and the many federal and state agencies that contributed to the departments recoveries this past fiscal year.Without the tremendous talent and dedication of the public servants who worked tirelessly to bring these matters to settlement or judgment, the nearly $6billion in recoveries we announce today would not have been possible, said Branda. I commend them all for their exceptional efforts.