An Army National Guard recruiter and recruiting assistant were convicted today for their roles in a bribery and fraud scheme, announced Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney Kenneth Magidson of the Southern District of Texas.Jammie T. Martin, 37, and Michelle H. Davis, 34, both of Katy, Texas, were convicted today of conspiracy, bribery, wire fraud and aggravated identity theft. The defendants were indicted on Aug. 7, 2013, and will be sentenced on May 7, 2015, by U.S. District Judge David Hittner of the Southern District of Texas.From February 2009 through April 2011, Martin served as an Army National Guard recruiter. Davis served as a recruiting assistant with the Guard Recruiting Assistance Program (G-RAP), which was a recruiting program that offered monetary incentives to soldiers of the Army National Guard who referred others to join the National Guard. Both defendants worked out of a Texas National Guard Armory known as the Westheimer Armory.According to evidence presented at trial, Martinwho, as a recruiter, was ineligible for the G-RAP incentivesprovided the personal identifying information of potential soldiers to Davis and at least three other National Guard soldiers. Davis and the others then falsely claimed they were responsible for referring the potential soldiers to join the military and fraudulently received referral bonus payments through the G-RAP program. Davis and the others paid approximately half of each fraudulent bonus payment to Martin as a kickback.To date, this investigation has led to the conviction of 26 individuals, including Martin and Davis.This case is being investigated by the San Antonio Fraud Resident Agency of the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Commands Major Procurement Fraud Unit and prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Sean F. Mulryne and Mark J. Cipolletti of the Criminal Divisions Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney John P. Pearson of the Southern District of Texas.