    WASHINGTON  A co-founder of NinjaVideo.net, a website that provided millions of users with the ability to illegally download infringing copies of copyright-protected movies and television programs in high-quality formats, pleaded guilty today to conspiracy to commit copyright infringement.       The guilty plea was announced by U.S. Attorney Neil H. MacBride for the Eastern District of Virginia  Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Director John Morton.     Justin A. Dedemko, 28, of Brooklyn, N.Y., pleaded guilty today before U.S. District Judge Anthony J. Trenga in the Alexandria Division of the Eastern District of Virginia.  Dedemkos fellow co-founders Matthew David Howard Smith and Hana Amal Beshara pleaded guilty on Sept. 23, 2011, and Sept. 29, 2011, respectively, to conspiracy and criminal copyright infringement.       According to the statement of facts, during the early part of the conspiracy, Dedemko was responsible for locating infringing content on the Internet and uploading the infringing content to servers used by the NinjaVideo.net website, some of which were located in the Eastern District of Virginia.  Later in the conspiracy, Dedemko focused on marketing, which included conversations with companies interested in placing advertisements on the NinjaVideo.net website.      According to the statement of facts, NinjaVideo generated a total of $505,000 in income from Internet advertising and visitor donations during the course of the conspiracy.  Dedemko admitted that he personally received $58,004 of these funds, and agreed to pay restitution in that amount.     At sentencing, scheduled for Feb. 24, 2012, Dedemko faces a maximum penalty of five years.       Dedemkos guilty plea follows the guilty pleas of four of five co-conspirators indicted on Sept. 9, 2011.  In addition to Smith and Beshara, Joshua David Evans, who served as one of NinjaVideos main uploaders, pleaded guilty on Oct. 25, 2011, to conspiracy and criminal copyright infringement.  Jeremy Lynn Andrew, who served as head of security for NinjaVideo.net, also pleaded guilty on Oct. 25, 2011, to conspiracy.  Sentencings will be held on Dec. 16, 2011, for Smith; Jan. 6, 2012, for Beshara; Jan. 27, 2012, for Evans; and Feb. 3, 2012, for Andrew.  An arrest warrant has been issued for the last remaining indicted co-conspirator, Zoi Mertzanis of Greece, who also allegedly served as one of the websites main uploaders.      The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Jay V. Prabhu and Lindsay A. Kelly and Trial Attorney Glenn Alexander of the Criminal Divisions Computer Crime & Intellectual Property Section.     The investigation was conducted by the National Intellectual Property Rights Coordination Center (IPR Center). The IPR Center is one of the U.S. governments key weapons in the fight against criminal counterfeiting and piracy. As a task force, the IPR Center uses the expertise of its 19 member agencies to share information, develop initiatives, coordinate enforcement actions, and conduct investigations related to IP theft. Through this strategic interagency partnership, the IPR Center protects the public's health and safety, the U.S. economy and the war fighters. None None