NoneNone The ICN Steering Group introduced and members approved three new initiatives. The Department of Justice and the Turkish Competition Authority co-chaired the international competition enforcement cooperation initiative, which was presented by the Acting Assistant Attorney General Pozen. The FTC and the European Commissions Competition Directorate co-chaired the investigative process initiative, which was presented by the Competition Directorates Director General Alexander Italianer. The working with courts and judges initiative, co-chaired by the Chilean Competition Tribunal and Polands Office of Competition and Consumer Protection,was presented by Malgorzata Krasnodebska-Tomkiel, President of the Polish authority.None The Cartel Working Group produced a paper on cartel awareness and outreach efforts and compiled comparative information on information exchanges in cartel cases. Deputy Assistant Attorney General of the Department of Justices Antitrust Division Scott D. Hammond, led a panel discussion focused on the challenges of bid-rigging enforcement. The ICNs Unilateral Conduct Working Group, co-chaired by the FTC, Germanys Bundeskartellamt and the Swedish Competition Authority, promotes convergence and sound enforcement of laws governing conduct by firms with substantial market power. The working group drafted chapters on the objectives of unilateral conduct laws and on predatory pricing for its workbook for agency investigators. FTC Counsel Cynthia Lagdameo led a panel discussion on predatory pricing by dominant firms. The Advocacy Working Group finalized a competition advocacy toolkit with guidance tools for agencies and a handbook on conducting market studies. In addition, the group issued a report on raising awareness of the benefits of competition. The conference also highlighted the work of the Agency Effectiveness Working Group, which is developing a competition agency manual as a resource to enhance agencies effectiveness and presented new material on knowledge management and human resources management. Former FTC Chairman William E. Kovacic participated in a discussion on resource management for competition authorities. The conferences Brazilian host agencies conducted a special project devoted to effective settlements in competition cases, including cartel, merger and unilateral conduct enforcement areas. FTC Commissioner Ramirez presented remarks and participated in the discussion focusing on settlements of unilateral conduct cases. Designing and implementing effective remedies in unilateral conduct cases presents one of the most important, yet daunting challenges competition authorities face, stated FTC Commissioner Ramirez. While the right remedy can restore much needed competition in a market, an ill-advised remedy can turn what could be a big victory for consumers into little more than a Pyrrhic victory. The conference showcased the ICN Curriculum Project, a project led by the FTC to create a virtual university of training materials on competition law and practice. Randolph W. Tritell, Director of the FTCs Office of International Affairs, presented the curriculum project at the conference. The ICN also approved new leadership positions. Chairman Eduardo Prez Motta of the Mexican Federal Competition Commission was selected as the new chair of the ICN Steering Group. He succeeds outgoing chair Chief Executive John Fingleton of the United Kingdoms Office of Fair Trading. The Department of Justice will co-chair the Cartel Working Group and the FTC will co-chair the Agency Effectiveness Working Group. The ICN was created in October 2001, when the Department of Justice and the FTC joined antitrust agencies from 13 other jurisdictions to increase understanding of competition policy and promote convergence toward best practices around the world. The ICN now includes 123 member agencies from 108 jurisdictions. None