  BP Exploration and Production Inc. (BP) has agreed to plead guilty to felony manslaughter, environmental crimes and obstruction of Congress and pay a record $4 billion in criminal fines and penalties for its conduct leading to the 2010 Deepwater Horizon disaster that killed 11 people and caused the largest environmental disaster in U.S. history, Attorney General Eric Holder announced today.   The 14-count information, filed today in U.S. District Court in the Eastern District of Louisiana, charges BP with 11 counts of felony manslaughter, one count of felony obstruction of Congress, and violations of the Clean Water and Migratory Bird Treaty Acts. None None  The explosion of the rig was a disaster that resulted from BPs culture of privileging profit over prudence, said Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Justice Departments Criminal Division.   We hope that BP's acknowledgment of its misconduct  through its agreement to plead guilty to 11 counts of felony manslaughter  brings some measure of justice to the family members of the people who died onboard the rig. NoneNone   According to court documents, on April 20, 2010, while stationed at the Macondo well site in the Gulf of Mexico, the Deepwater Horizon rig experienced an uncontrolled blowout and related explosions.   In agreeing to plead guilty, BP has admitted that the two highest-ranking BP supervisors onboard the Deepwater Horizon, known as BPs Well Site Leaders or company men, negligently caused the deaths of 11 men and the resulting oil spill.   The information details that, on the evening of April 20, the two supervisors, Kaluza and Vidrine, observed clear indications that the Macondo well was not secure and that oil and gas were flowing into the well.   Despite this, BPs well site leaders chose not to take obvious and appropriate steps to prevent the blowout.   As a result of their conduct, control of the Macondo well was lost, resulting in catastrophe.      Kaluza and Vidrine each are charged with 11 felony counts of seamans manslaughter, 11 felony counts of involuntary manslaughter and one violation of the Clean Water Act.   If convicted, Kaluza and Vidrine each face a maximum potential penalty of 10 years in prison on each seamans manslaughter count, up to eight years in prison on each involuntary manslaughter count, and up to a year in prison on the Clean Water Act count.      The information charging BP further details that the company, through senior executive Rainey, obstructed an inquiry by the U.S. Congress into the amount of oil being discharged into the Gulf while the spill was ongoing.   As part of its plea agreement, BP has admitted that, through Rainey, it withheld documents and provided false and misleading information in response to the U.S. House of Representatives request for flow-rate information.   Among other things, BP admitted that Rainey manipulated internal estimates to understate the amount of oil flowing from the well and withheld data that contradicted BPs public estimate of 5,000 barrels of oil per day.   BP has also admitted that, at the same time Rainey was preparing his manipulated estimates, BPs internal engineering response teams were using sophisticated methods that generated significantly higher estimates.   The Flow Rate Technical Group, consisting of government and independent scientists, later concluded that more than 60,000 barrels per day were leaking into the Gulf during the relevant time, contrary to BPs representations to Congress.   Rainey is charged with one count of obstruction of Congress, and one count of making false statements to law enforcement officials.   If convicted, Rainey faces a maximum potential penalty of five years in prison on each count. None   In addition to the historic $4 billion in criminal fines and penalties, BP has agreed as part of its guilty plea to retain a process safety and risk management monitor and an independent auditor, who will oversee BPs process safety, risk management and drilling equipment maintenance with respect to deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico. BP is also required to retain an ethics monitor to improve BPs code of conduct for the purpose of seeking to ensure BPs future candor with the United States government.   The United States continues to pursue a civil action to recover civil penalties under the Clean Water Act and hold BP and other defendants liable for natural resource damages under the Oil Pollution Act.   A trial on liability matters is scheduled to begin in February 2013, during which the United States will seek to establish that the spill was caused by BPs gross negligence.   BP could face billions of dollars of additional exposure in the civil lawsuit.   The guilty plea agreement and charges announced today are part of the ongoing criminal investigation by the Deepwater Horizon Task Force into matters related to the April 2010 Gulf oil spill.   The Deepwater Horizon Task Force, based in New Orleans, is supervised by Assistant Attorney General Breuer and led by Deputy Assistant Attorney General John D. Buretta, who serves as the director of the task force.   The task force includes prosecutors from the Criminal Division and Environment and Natural Resources Division of the Department of Justice; the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of Louisiana, as well as other U.S. Attorneys Offices; and investigating agents from the FBI, Environmental Protection Agency, Department of Interior, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Office of Law Enforcement, U.S. Coast Guard, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality.   Today, the SEC simultaneously resolved civil securities fraud charges with BP in a $525 million settlement.   The Justice Department also acknowledges and expresses its appreciation for the significant assistance provided by the SECs Division of Enforcement.   These cases are being prosecuted by Deepwater Horizon Task Force Deputy Directors Derek A. Cohen and Avi Gesser, and task force prosecutors Richard R. Pickens II, Scott M. Cullen, Colin Black, Edward Kang and Rohan Virginkar.   An indictment or information is merely a charge and a defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.  NoneNone