  Three Saudi nationals were transferred today from the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia under appropriate security measures.   All individuals transferred to Saudi Arabia are subject to judicial review in Saudi Arabia before they undergo a rehabilitation program. While in a rehabilitation program, they will be under the control of the Saudi Government. The U.S. and Saudi Governments are working closely together on all matters related to the transfer of Saudi detainees from Guantanamo to Saudi Arabia.  As directed by the Presidents Jan. 22, 2009, Executive Order, the interagency Guantanamo Review Task Force conducted a comprehensive review of the cases involving Khalid Saad Mohammed, Abdalaziz Kareem Salim Al Noofayaee and Ahmed Zaid Salim Zuhair. As a result of that review, these detainees were approved for transfer from Guantanamo Bay. Each of these detainees was previously cleared for transfer by the prior Administration. The transfers were carried out pursuant to an arrangement between the United States and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.  "With these latest transfers, the U.S. Government has moved nine detainees over the course of this week to locations in Bermuda, Chad, Iraq, and Saudi Arabia. This marks the largest number of transfers in a single week in well over a year and occurred, in large part, due to the willingness of foreign governments to work closely with the United States on this important issue and to assist in the closure of the Guantanamo Bay detention facility. We are grateful for the cooperation of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and for its assistance on the successful transfer of the three individuals today," said Matthew Olsen, Executive Director of the Guantanamo Review Task Force.  Since 2002, more than 540 detainees have departed Guantanamo for other countries including Albania, Algeria, Afghanistan, Australia, Bangladesh, Bahrain, Belgium, Bermuda, Chad, Denmark, Egypt, France, Great Britain, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Libya, Maldives, Mauritania, Morocco, Pakistan, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Sweden, Sudan, Tajikistan, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom and Yemen.