  WASHINGTONSpeaking in a video message posted on the Justice Departments website, Attorney General Eric Holder on Wednesday called for an end to the excessive use of solitary confinement for youth that suffer from mental illness. Attorney General Holder said the practices can have lasting, substantial effects on young people that could result in self-harm or, in some cases, even suicide.None  Last February, the Civil Rights Division also took the rare but necessary step of filing a statement of interest addressing the use of excessive reliance on solitary confinement for disabled youth in Contra Costa County, California. Young people in these detention centers, including those with disabilities, were allegedly held in solitary confinement for up to 23 hours a day, often with no human interaction at all.  The complete text of the Attorney Generals video message is below:  Across the country, far too many juvenile detention centers see isolation and solitary confinement as an appropriate way to handle challenging youth, in particular youth with disabilities. But solitary confinement can be dangerous, and a serious impediment to the ability of juveniles to succeed once released.  In a study released last year by the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, 47 percent of juvenile detention centers reported locking youth in some type of isolation for more than four hours at a time. We have received reports of young people who have been held in solitary confinement for up to 23 hours a day, often with no human interaction at all. In some cases, children were held in small rooms with windows that were barely the width of their own hands.  This is, to say the least, excessive. And these episodes are all too common.  This practice is particularly detrimental to young people with disabilities  who are at increased risk under these circumstances of negative effects including self-harm and even suicide. In fact, one national study found that half of the victims of suicides in juvenile facilities were in isolation at the time they took their own lives, and 62 percent of victims had a history of solitary confinement.None  We must ensure in all circumstances  and particularly when it comes to our young people  that incarceration is used to rehabilitate, and not merely to warehouse and forget. Our nationwide effort to end the unnecessary or excessive seclusion of youth with disabilities will not be completed solely with one settlement or court filing. But as a department, we are dedicated  and as Attorney General, I am committed  to doing everything possible to ensure the effectiveness and integrity of our criminal and juvenile justice system. In the days ahead, we will continue to make good on our commitment to the best practices of law enforcement and the highest ideals of our nation.None