Caused Loss of More Than $9 MillionAPollockPines, California, woman who owned a tax return preparation businessand two of her employees,pleaded guilty to charges related to filing more than 250 false claims for refund, announced Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Caroline D. Ciraolo, head of the Justice Departments Tax Division and Acting U.S.Attorney Phillip A. Talbert for the Eastern District of California.Teresa Marty,56, the owner of Advanced Financial Services (AFS), a Placerville, California, tax return preparation business,pleaded guilty todayto conspiringto file false claims for refundand conspiring to defraud the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). On Aug.24, Pamela Harris, Martys office manager,and Rebecca Bandera-Marty, a California certified tax return preparer,also pleaded guiltyto one count of conspiring to file false claims. Marty, Harris and Bandera-Marty were indicted inJune 2013 along with two other co-defendantclients,Charles and VictoriaTingler. TheTinglerspleaded guilty to filing false claims inthe spring of2015 and will be sentenced in November.Incometax returns are not a vehicle to siphon public funds for personal benefit,said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Ciraolo. Those individuals, like Teresa Marty, Pamela Harris and Rebecca Bandera-Marty, who promote and facilitatethese types of refund fraud schemesshould know that the department, along with itspartners in law enforcement, arecommitted to investigating and prosecuting such abuses.Marty, Harris andBandera-Martyadmitted that theyconspiredtofile falseindividual income tax returnsclaimingmore than $60 millionin false federal income tax refunds. Martyand Harris recruited clients byfalsely representingthat the clientscould legallyreceive sizable tax refunds by filing tax returns with IRS Forms 1099-OID. AFS prepared false Forms 1099-OID that reported an amount equal to the clients debts as income and the same amount as income tax withheld, resulting in significantincome tax refunds to which the clients were not entitled. The scheme included clients from 26 states andcaused the IRS to pay out over 40 tax refunds, totaling more than$9 million. The IRSlisted theuseof false Forms 1099-OIDon itswebsite as one of the dirty dozen tax schemes for the years2009 through 2014.Martyalso admittedthat sheand theTinglers, with the help of Harris,filedmultimilliondollar liens againstgovernment officials, includingthree IRS employees involved in the collection of taxes the defendantsowed the IRSas a result of participating in the scheme. Marty filed$84 millionliens against the then ActingU.S.Attorney for the Eastern District of California and aformer Department of JusticeTaxDivisionattorneyinvolved infiling suit to permanently enjoin Marty and AFS from preparing tax returns. The liens that were filed with the California Secretary of Stateunlawfullydisclosed personal identification information of the government employees. Harris and Marty alsoengaged a commercial collection agency to collect one of the three false liensthat CharlesTingler filedagainst anIRS revenue officer in the amount of $500,000.From her office in the Sierra Foothills, Marty traveled around the country to promote a preposterous theory that taxpayers could somehow use IRS forms to claim refunds based on their own private debts, said Acting U.S. Attorney Talbert. As Marty, Harris, Bandera-Marty and others have now admitted, this was just a criminal scheme to make false claims to loot the U.S. Treasury. Im proud of the government employees who worked diligently to put an end to this even after criminal schemers retaliated against them personally.The defendants used their knowledge to exploit vulnerabilities in the tax system, said Special Agent in Charge Michael T. Batdorf for IRS-Criminal Investigation. Marty and her co-defendants recruited clients for their tax fraud scheme by falsely representing that they could eliminate their debts and legally receive sizable tax refunds by submitting tax returns with IRS Forms 1099-OID. Taxpayers should not be taken in by false descriptions of the law or misrepresentations of the facts. As the old adage goes - if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.Tax preparers who file false returns with the IRS are not only violating the law and stealing from taxpayers, but violating the trust placed in them by their clients, said Special Agent in Charge Rod Ammari for the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration. When these same tax preparers then file fraudulent and illegal liens against IRS employees, with the intent to intimidate them from doing their jobs, their actions are doubly heinous.Clients of AFS have beenprosecutedin Arizona, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Missouri, Oregon and Washington for filing the false claims for refund prepared by Martyand AFS.Marty is scheduled to be sentenced on Jan. 4, 2017. She faces a maximum sentence of 15 years in prison, a term of supervised release and monetary penalties. Bandera-Martyisscheduled to be sentenced onNov.16, andHarrisis scheduled to be sentenced on Jan.4, 2017. They each facea maximum sentence of 10years in prison,a term of supervised release and monetary penalties.Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney GeneralCiraoloand Acting U.S.AttorneyTalbert commended special agents of IRS-Criminal Investigation and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration, who conducted the investigation and Trial Attorneys Erin S. Mellen and Andrea A. Kafka of the Tax Division and Assistant U.S. Attorney Matthew D. Segal, who prosecuted the case.None