One member of the Universal Aryan Brotherhood (UAB) prison gang pleaded guilty today to an indictment charging him with conspiracy to participate in a racketeering enterprise and conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute methamphetamine, announced Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney Danny C. Williams Sr. of the Northern District of Oklahoma.Anthony Ramon Hall, 39, of Tulsa, Oklahoma, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Court Judge Claire V. Eagan of the Northern District of Oklahoma. In addition, on June 2, 2015, UAB associate Carl Matthew Smith, 37, of Tulsa, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to participate in a racketeering enterprise and conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute methamphetamine. On June 4, 2015, UAB associate Robert Allen Paul Bryan, 40, of Tulsa, pleaded guilty to one count of violence in aid of racketeering connected to the maiming of a former UAB member. Halls sentencing is set Sept. 24, 2015, Smiths sentencing is set for Sept. 3, 2015. Bryans sentencing is set for Sept. 22, 2015.In connection with their guilty pleas, Hall and Smith acknowledged their membership in or association with the UAB, a violent, whites only prison-based gang with members and associates operating inside and outside of state prisons throughout Oklahoma. Hall also admitted that he held a leadership position in the UABs main council, which is the supreme governing body of the UAB. The main council has the authority to issue direct orders, vote on the admission of new members or prospects, declare war on rival gangs and mete out punishment for violation of UAB bylaws.Hall and Smith further admitted to advancing the UAB enterprise by selling methamphetamine. Specifically, Hall admitted to using smuggled cell phones to coordinate the delivery, receipt and sale of methamphetamine from prison by UAB members and associates outside of prison who would then return profits to him. Hall also admitted to coordinating the firebombing of a car belonging to a person he believed had stolen from UABs methamphetamine enterprise. Smith admitted to selling methamphetamine and marijuana for the benefit of the UAB as well, and to delivering drug proceeds to UAB members in prison.During his plea proceedings, Bryan admitted to participating in the May 2013 maiming of a former UAB member. Specifically, Bryan admitted that he and UAB members, operating on orders from the main council, restrained the victim while additional gang members used a heated knife to burn off the victims UAB neck tattoo.This case was investigated by the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations; Tulsa, Oklahoma, Police Department; Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigations Division; FBI; Tulsa County Sheriffs Office; and the Oklahoma Department of Corrections. The case is being prosecuted by John C. Hanley of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Allen Litchfield and Jan Reincke of the Northern District of Oklahoma.