A leader of the Vice Lords street gang was sentenced today to 20 years in prison for attempted murder in aid of racketeering in connection with the May 7, 2015, shooting of a family of four with an AK-47 in Detroit.Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Barbara L. McQuade of the Eastern District of Michigan, Special Agent in Charge Robin Shoemaker of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) Detroit Field Division Office, Special Agent in Charge David P. Gelios of the FBIs Detroit Division and Chief James Craig of the Detroit Police Department made the announcements.Antonio Clark, aka Cheeto, 26, of Detroit, pleaded guilty on Jan. 27, 2016, to two counts of attempted murder in aid of racketeering and use and carry of a firearm during and in relation to a crime of violence.According to Clarks plea agreement, the Vice Lords is a national gang engaged in a variety of crimes, including murder, robbery, narcotics trafficking and witness intimidation. The Vice Lords leaders are located in both Chicago and Detroit, and the gang is broken down into various sets, decks, or branches, including the Detroit-based Traveling Vice Lords, Insane Vice Lords, Imperial Insane Vice Lords, Conservative Vice Lords and Mafia Insane Vice Lords. Clark admitted that members who seek to leave the gang oftentimes endure a physical beating, known as a beat out, by multiple Vice Lords members, or are targeted for killing, known as a green light.Clark admitted that in May 2015, he and other members of the Vice Lords were searching for two brothers who had left or attempted to leave the gang. According to the plea agreement and sentencing documents, Clark and at least eight other Vice Lords met on May 7, 2015, to discuss a plan of action and Clark brought a loaded AK-47 to the meeting. Clark admitted that later that day, he and other Vice Lords traveled to the intended victims house in broad daylight. According to sentencing documents, Clark fired the AK-47 23 times, hitting the brothers, their mother and a 15-year-old sister. In addition, sentencing documents reflect that a five-year-old boy was present but not shot. All of the victims survived the shooting.Seven other Vice Lords defendants also have pleaded guilty to charges relating to the shooting, four of whom have been sentenced: Aramis Wilson, 25, of Detroit, was sentenced to 150 months in prison; Dion Robinson, 38, of Detroit, was sentenced to 121 months in prison; Jonathan Kinchen, 23, of Detroit, was sentenced to 120 months in prison; and Kojuan Lee, 20, of Detroit, was sentenced to 97 months in prison.NoneThe arrests and convictions in this case are, in part, the result of the Detroit One Initiative, a collaborative effort between law enforcement and the community to reduce homicide and other violent crime in Detroit. Through the lead efforts of the Comprehensive Violence Reduction Partnership Task Force, which consists of representatives of the ATF, Detroit Police Department, Michigan State Police, Michigan Department of Corrections and FBI, law enforcement authorities linked various acts of violence in Detroit to the Vice Lords street gang, and identified the leaders and key members of the gang, who now have been held accountable.The charges and allegations contained in the indictment are merely accusations. The defendants are presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty.The ATF, FBI and Detroit Police Department are investigating the case. Trial Attorney Joseph Wheatley of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Christopher Graveline and Mark Bilkovic of the Eastern District of Michigan are prosecuting the case.