The United States today filed a civil complaint in federal court in Brooklyn, New York, against Paul Mangione, former Deutsche Bank head of subprime trading. In its complaint, the United States alleges that Mangione engaged in a fraudulent scheme to misrepresent the characteristics of loans backing two residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) that Deutsche Bank sold to investors that resulted in hundreds of millions of dollars in losses. This suit is brought pursuant to the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 (FIRREA) and seeks an appropriate civil penalty.As alleged in the complaint, Mangione engaged in a fraudulent scheme to sell ACE 2007-HE4 (HE4) -- a $ 1 billion security -- and ACE 2007-HE5 (HE5) -- a $400 million security -- by misleading investors about the quality of the loans backing the securitizations. The complaint further alleges that Mangione also misled investors about the origination practices of Deutsche Banks wholly-owned subsidiary, DB Home Lending LLC (DB Home) (f/k/a Chapel Funding LLC), which was the primary originator of loans included in the deals. Mangione approved offering documents for HE4 and HE5 even though he knew they misrepresented key characteristics of the loans, including compliance with lending guidelines, borrowers ability to pay, borrowers fraud and appraisal accuracy.The HE4 and HE5 offering documents also falsely represented that DB Home had developed internal underwriting guidelines that it believe[d] generated quality loans and that DB Home had instituted a quality control process that monitor[ed] loan production with the overall goal of improving the quality of loan production, among numerous other representations designed to instill in investors trust in DB Homes underwriting processes. As alleged in the complaint, Mangione knew that these statements were false.The defendant fraudulently induced investors, including pension plans, religious organizations, financial institutions and government-sponsored entities, to name only a few, to invest nearly a billion and a half dollars in HE4 and HE5 RMBS, and caused them to suffer extraordinary losses as a result, stated Acting U.S. Attorney Bridget M. Rohde for the Eastern District of New York. We will hold accountable those who seek to deceive the investing public through fraud and misrepresentation.The governments complaint alleges that Mr. Mangione knew that certain of Deutsche Banks RMBS contained unsound mortgages that did not meet the credit or appraisal standards that the bank represented, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Chad A. Readler of the Justice Departments Civil Division. By allegedly misleading investors about the riskiness of these securities, Mr. Mangione prioritized his and his employers bottom line over principles of honesty and fair dealing. The Department of Justice will continue to pursue those who engage in fraud as a way to conduct business.As alleged in todays filing, this individual knowingly took steps during the lead up to the financial crisis to sell defective mortgage loans while hiding the poor quality of the loans from investors, said Deputy Inspector General for Investigations Rene Febles for the Federal Housing Finance Agency Office of the Inspector General. This conduct was deliberately fraudulent and resulted in significant losses for the investors. We are committed to working with the U.S. Department of Justice and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of New York to hold accountable those who engaged in fraud in the secondary market for mortgages.In January 2017, the Department of Justice settled a related RMBS matter with Deutsche Bank.The United States case is being handled by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Edward K. Newman and Ryan M. Wilson. Acting U.S. Attorney Bridget M. Rohde and Acting Assistant Attorney General Readler thanked the Office of the Inspector General for the Federal Housing Finance Administration for its assistance in conducting the investigation in this matter.The Case number is E.D.N.Y. Docket No. 17-CV-5305 (NGG).