Pine Creek Medical Center LLC (Pine Creek), a physician-owned hospital serving the Dallas/Fort Worth area, has agreed to pay $7.5 million to resolve claims that it violated the False Claims Act by paying physicians kickbacks in the form of marketing services in exchange for surgical referrals, the Department of Justice announced today. Health care providers that attempt to profit from illegal kickbacks will be held accountable, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Chad A. Readler, head of the Justice Departments Civil Division. Improper financial incentives can distort medical decision making and drive up healthcare costs for federal health care programs and their beneficiaries. The government alleged that, between 2009 and 2014, Pine Creek engaged in an illegal kickback scheme whereby the hospital would pay for marketing and/or advertising services on physicians behalf and, in return, the physicians would refer their patients, including Medicare and TRICARE beneficiaries, to Pine Creek. Among other things, Pine Creek allegedly paid for advertisements on behalf of the physicians in a number of local and regional publications. Pine Creek also allegedly paid for radio and television advertising, pay-per-click advertising campaigns, billboards, website upgrades, brochures, and business cards, as well as other forms of marketing to induce physicians to refer patients to Pine Creek for medical services. The United States Attorneys Office, in coordination with our partners at Main Justice and HHS-OIG, have and will continue to aggressively pursue those that violate the Anti-Kickback Statute, regardless of the nature or form that the kickback takes, said Erin Nealy Cox, the U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Texas. We must hold individuals and entities responsible for improperly furthering their financial interests at the expense of the federal health care programs.As part of the settlement, Pine Creek has agreed to enter into a corporate integrity agreement with the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General (HHS-OIG), which obligates the defendants to undertake substantial internal compliance reforms for the next five years.Hospitals that try to boost their profits by paying kickbacks to physicians will instead pay for their improper conduct, said Special Agent in Charge C.J. Porter, Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector Generals Dallas Region. We will continue to investigate such illegal business arrangements that undermine impartial medical judgment.The settlement resolves allegations originally brought in a lawsuit filed by whistleblowers under the qui tam provisions of the False Claims Act, which allow private parties to bring suit on behalf of the government and to share in any recovery. The whistleblowers, Suzanne Scott and Savannah Sogar, former employees of Pine Creeks marketing department, will receive $1,125,000.The governments intervention in this matter illustrates its emphasis on combating health care fraud. One of the most powerful tools in this effort is the False Claims Act. Tips and complaints from all sources about potential fraud, waste, abuse, and mismanagement, can be reported to the Department of Health and Human Services, at 800-HHS-TIPS (800-447-8477). The case was handled by the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Northern District of Texas and the Justice Departments Civil Division, with assistance from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and in coordination with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General. The lawsuit is captioned U.S. ex rel. Suzanne Scott, et al. v. Pine Creek Medical Center, LLC, Case No. 3:14-cv-3065 (N.D. Tex.). The claims settled by this agreement are allegations only; there has been no determination of liability.