The Justice Department announced today that 16 separate hospitals and their respective corporate parents have agreed to collectively pay $15.69 million to resolve False Claims Act allegations that the providers sought and received reimbursement from Medicare for services that were not medically reasonable or necessary, the U.S. Department of Justice announced today.Hospitals that participate in the Medicare program must ensure that the services they provide and bill for are based on the medical needs of patients rather than the desire to maximize profits, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer of the Justice Departments Civil Division. The Department of Justice is committed to ensuring that those who seek to abuse the Medicare program will be held accountable for their actions.This case concerns claims to Medicare for Intensive Outpatient Psychotherapy (IOP) services. IOP services represent a continuation of ambulatory psychiatric services and provide active treatment to individuals with mental disorders using a variety of treatment methods. Medicare will pay for an appropriate course of IOP treatment provided a number of specific requirements are met including, most notably, that the services in question are reasonable and necessary for the diagnosis and treatment of the patients condition.These settlements resolve allegations that, beginning as early as 2005 and in some cases continuing into 2013, the hospitals knowingly submitted claims for IOP services that did not qualify for Medicare reimbursement because: the patients condition did not qualify for IOP; the patients treatments were not provided pursuant to an individualized treatment plan designed to help the patient address specific mental health needs and reach achievable goals; the patients progress was not being adequately tracked or documented; the patient received an inappropriate level of treatment; and/or the therapy provided was primarily recreational or diversional in nature, and not therapeutic. The IOP services in question were typically performed on the providers behalf by Allegiance Health Management (Allegiance), a post-acute healthcare management company based in Shreveport, Louisiana, but billed to Medicare by the providers.The providers who have reached agreements to resolve these allegations with the United States include:Health Management Associates Inc. (HMA), and the following 14 hospitals formerly owned and operated by HMA: Central Mississippi Medical Center in Mississippi, Crossgate River Oaks in Mississippi, Dallas Regional Medical Center in Texas, Davis Regional Medical Center in North Carolina, East Georgia Regional Medical Center in Georgia, Gilmore Regional Medical Center in Mississippi, Lake Norman Regional Medical Center in North Carolina, Lehigh Regional Medical Center in Florida, Medical Center of Southeastern Oklahoma in Oklahoma, Natchez Community Hospital in Mississippi, Northwest Mississippi Regional Medical Center in Mississippi, Santa Rosa Medical Center in Florida, Southwest Regional Medical Center in Arkansas, and Summit Medical Center in Arkansas, which agreed to collectively pay $15 million;Community Health Systems and its subsidiary Wesley Medical Center in Mississippi, which agreed to pay $210,000; andNorth Texas Medical Center in Texas, which agreed to pay $480,000.In October 2013, the United States resolved similar allegations with LifePoint Hospitals Inc. and two of its subsidiaries, PHC-Minden L.P., doing business as Minden Medical Center, and PHC-Cleveland Inc., doing business as Bolivar Medical Center, which collectively paid $4,672,469.80.This case demonstrates that the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of Arkansas will aggressively pursue civil health care fraud cases, where the integrity of the Medicare system has been undermined, said U.S. Attorney Christopher R. Thyer of the Eastern District of Arkansas. Medical care providers who abuse Medicare hurt all taxpayers, and todays announcement highlights our commitment to protecting our national health care system, as well as the Arkansans who depend on it.Our agency is dedicated to investigating health care fraud schemes such as this, which divert scarce taxpayer funds meant to provide for legitimate patient care, including services for the often underserved mentally ill population, said Special Agent in Charge Mike Fields of U.S. Department of Health and Human Services-Office of Inspector General (HHS-OIG).The allegations resolved by todays settlements arose from a lawsuit filed under the False Claims Act. The act allows private individuals known as relators to sue on behalf of the United States and to share in the proceeds of any settlement or judgment that may result. The relator in this case will receive $2,667,300.These settlements were the result of a coordinated effort by the Civil Divisions Commercial Litigation Branch, the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of Arkansas and HHS Office of Audit Statistics and OIG.These settlements illustrate the governments emphasis on combating health care fraud and marks another achievement for the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT) initiative, which was announced in May 2009 by the Attorney General and the Secretary of Health and Human Services. The partnership between the two departments has focused efforts to reduce and prevent Medicare and Medicaid financial fraud through enhanced cooperation. One of the most powerful tools in this effort is the False Claims Act. Since January 2009, the Justice Department has recovered a total of more than $24 billion through False Claims Act cases, with more than $15.3 billion of that amount recovered in cases involving fraud against federal health care programs.The claims settled by these agreements are allegations only, and there has been no determination of liability.