The Justice Department reached an agreement today with Real Time Staffing Services LLC, doing business as Select Staffing, a company based in Santa Barbara, California. The settlement resolves the departments claims that Select Staffing discriminated against work-authorized non-U.S. citizens in violation of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA). The departments investigation, which was initiated based on a referral from the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), concluded that members of the companys staff required non-U.S. citizens, but not similarly-situated U.S. citizens, to present specific documents during the employment eligibility verification process to establish their work authority. The INAs anti-discrimination provision prohibits employers from placing additional documentary burdens on work-authorized employees during the employment eligibility verification process based on their citizenship status or national origin. Under the settlement agreement, Select Staffing will pay $230,000 in civil penalties to the United States, create a $35,000 back pay fund to compensate individuals who may have lost wages due to the companys practices and undergo training on the anti-discrimination provision of the INA. Certain Select Staffing branches will be subject to departmental monitoring and reporting requirements for a period of three years. The Civil Rights Division is committed to protecting work authorized individuals from discriminatory practices in the employment eligibility verification process, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Molly Moran for the Civil Rights Division. We commend Select Staffing for working cooperatively with the division to resolve this matter. None None  Applicants or employees who believe they were subjected to different documentary requirements based on their citizenship status, immigration status or national origin, or discrimination based on their citizenship status, immigration status or national origin in hiring, firing, or recruitment or referral, should contact OSCs worker hotline for assistance.