None     U.S. District Court Judge William E. Smith also sentenced Folcarelli to serve three years of supervised release upon completion of his prison term and to pay $25,000 in restitution to be paid jointly and severally with co-defendants Raymond R. Scarface Jenkins and Edward Eddy Lato. Folcarelli pleaded guilty on May 4, 2012, to one count of Hobbs Act extortion.  None     Folcarellis sentence was announced by Peter F. Neronha, United States Attorney for the District of Rhode Island; Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the Justice Departments Criminal Division; Richard Deslauriers, Special Agent in Charge of the FBIs Boston Field Office; Colonel Steven G. ODonnellSuperintendent of the Rhode Island State Police; and Providence Public Safety Commissioner Steven M. Pare.    Folcarelli, Lato and Jenkins are among seven Rhode Island men convicted and sentenced for crimes involving racketeering and extortion, which allegedly extorted protection payments from several adult entertainment businesses and individuals in Rhode Island during the past two decades. Admitted NELCN crime boss Luigi Louie Manocchio, 85, is currently serving a 66 month sentence in federal prison; Alfred Chippy Scivola, 72, an admitted NELCN member, is serving a 46 month sentence in prison; Richard Bonifiglia, 58, an admitted NELCN associate, is serving an 84 month sentence in prison; and Thomas Iafrate, an admitted NELCN associate, is currently serving a 30 month sentence in prison.    An eighth defendant named in a second superseding indictment, Theodore Cardillo, 69, has entered a plea of not guilty to three counts each of RICO conspiracy and extortion conspiracy. He is detained while awaiting trial.       A third superseding indictment returned in this matter returned on April 24, 2012, charges Anthony L. Dinunzio, 53, of East Boston, Mass., the alleged acting leader of the NELCN, with one count each of racketeering and extortion, and five counts of travel in aid of racketeering. A not guilty plea was entered on April 25, 2012. Dinunzio is detained while awaiting trial.       An indictmentis merely an allegation and is not evidence of guilt. A defendant is entitled to a fair trial in which it will be the governments burden to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. None       The matter was investigated by the FBI, the Rhode Island State Police and the Providence Police Department. 