  The Justice Department today  announced it has reached an agreement with the city of Newark, New Jersey, to  address a pattern and practice of unconstitutional policing by the Newark Police  Department (NPD).  The agreement follows a joint investigation by the Justice  Departments Civil Rights Division and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the  District of New Jersey, the results of which were also released today.   The findings, detailed in a  report provided to the city and to NPD leadership, document the NPDs pattern or  practice of constitutional violations in its stop and arrest practices; its  response to individuals exercising their rights under the First Amendment; its  use of force; and through theft by officers.  The investigation also revealed  deficiencies in NPD systems that are designed to prevent and detect misconduct.   The city of Newark cooperated  with the investigation, which began on May 9, 2011, and has agreed to enter into  a court-enforceable, independently monitored agreement to reform the NPD to  ensure constitutional policing.  The terms of the agreement are outlined in the  agreement in principle released today.  Among other things, the NPD must  continue to develop and implement improvements to its stop, arrest and force  policies and procedures, and to train its officers on how to conduct effective  and constitutional policing.  The NPD also must implement systems that ensure  accountability, commit to building police-community partnerships and improve the  quality of policing throughout the city.   Our investigation uncovered  troubling patterns in stops, arrests and use of force by the police in Newark.   With this agreement, were taking decisive action to address potential  discrimination and end unconstitutional conduct by those who are sworn to serve  their fellow citizens, said Attorney General Eric Holder.  This action  reaffirms the Justice Departments commitment to working with our law  enforcement partners in order to ensure the highest standards of integrity and  professionalism.  Under todays agreement, Newark police officials are taking  the first in a series of important steps to restore public trust in their  department and ensure both the safety and the civil rights of Newark  residents.   Today the city of Newark has  taken a bold step toward ensuring constitutional policing that better serves all  of Newarks residents, said Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Civil  Rights Division Jocelyn Samuels.  The Department of Justice report released  today makes clear the depth and breadth of the challenges Newark faces in  reforming its police department; but the agreement in principle provides a  roadmap for reform and underscores the shared determination of the city of  Newark and the Department of Justice to making this reform real and  sustainable.   The  people of Newark deserve to be safe, and so do the thousands who come here to  work, to learn, and to take advantage of all the city has to offer, said U.S.  Attorney Fishman. They also need to know the police protecting them are doing  that important  and often dangerous  work while respecting their  constitutional rights. The Justice Department has a long history of making sure  of that, and today we have the commitment of Newark's mayor and the leadership  of the police department to make the department the one that the city  deserves.   During the investigation, the  Justice Department reviewed thousands of NPD documents, including written  policies and procedures, documentation of stops, searches and arrests, internal  investigation files and use of force reports and reviews.  Attorneys and  investigators also interviewed NPD officers, supervisors and command staff, as  well as city officials, and met with hundreds of community members and local  advocates.   As the report describes, the  Justice Department found reasonable cause to believe that the NPD has engaged in  a pattern or practice of unconstitutional stops in violation of the Fourth  Amendment.  Specifically, NPD officers failed to articulate sufficient  justification for nearly 75 percent of pedestrian stops.  NPD officers also  disproportionately stopped black people relative to their representation in  Newarks population.  Although the NPDs reports were insufficient to allow the  Justice Department to determine whether this disparity was the result of  intentional discrimination or was otherwise unlawful, the report urges the city  of Newark and NPD to improve its collection and analysis of its stop, search and  arrest data to facilitate a more thorough analysis of the racial and ethnic  impacts of NPDs police practices and to take steps to eliminate avoidable  disparities.   Through the course of the  investigation, the Justice Department also found that NPD officers have detained  and arrested individuals who lawfully objected to police actions or behaved in a  way that officers perceived as disrespectful, in violation of the First  Amendment.   In addition, the Justice  Department found cause to believe that the NPD engaged in a pattern or practice  of the use of excessive force.  The NPD has been unable to make reliable  conclusions about whether a particular use of force was reasonable due to  substantial underreporting and inadequate investigation of the use of force by  NPD officers.  Nonetheless, of the incidents reviewed as part of the Justice  Departments investigation, more than 20 percent of NPD officers reported use of  force that appeared unreasonable. None   The Justice Departments report  details other inadequacies that contributed to a pattern of constitutional  violations.  Deficiencies were found in Internal Affairs (IA) processes, in  investigations reviewing use of force and complaints regarding officer  misconduct, in supervision and management, and in the training of officers and  IA investigators.   The Justice Department conducted  its investigation jointly through the Special Litigation Section of the Civil  Rights Division and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of New Jersey,  with the assistance of law enforcement and statistics experts. None