  The Justice Department reached  an agreement today with Commercial Cleaning Systems, a janitorial services  company with headquarters in Denver.  The agreement resolves claims that the  company discriminated against work-authorized non-U.S. citizens in violation of  the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA).   The departments investigation  was initiated based on a referral from U.S. Citizenship and Immigration  Services.  The investigation found that Commercial Cleaning Systems required  work-authorized non-U.S. citizens to present specific documentation issued by  the U.S. Department of Homeland Security in order to verify their employment  eligibility, while U.S. citizens were permitted to present their choice of  documentation.  The INAs anti-discrimination provision prohibits employers from  placing additional documentary burdens on work-authorized employees during the  hiring and employment eligibility verification process based on their  citizenship status or national origin.   Under the settlement  agreement, Commercial Cleaning Systems will pay $53,500 in civil penalties,  create a $25,000 back pay fund to compensate individuals who may have lost wages  as a result of the companys discriminatory document practices, and be subject  to monitoring of its employment eligibility verification practices for one  year.   Discriminating against  work-authorized employees because they are not citizens violates federal law and  the Justice Department is committed to enforcing this law, said Acting  Assistant Attorney General Jocelyn Samuels for the Civil Rights Division.  We  applaud Commercial Cleaning Systems for working cooperatively with the division  to resolve this matter. None None   Applicants or employees who  believe they were subjected to different documentary requirements or  discrimination based on their citizenship status, immigration status or national  origin in hiring, firing or recruitment or referral for a fee should contact the  worker hotline above for assistance.