  Attorney General Eric Holder and Education Secretary Arne Duncan today joined with Chicago city officials to call for a national conversation on values to address youth violence in the wake of the fatal beating of a Chicago high school student. The announcement followed meetings with City officials, community leaders, students, and parents.  "Youth violence isnt a Chicago problem, any more than it is a black problem or a white problem. Its something that affects communities big and small, and people of all races and colors. Today is the beginning of what will be a sustained, national effort on behalf of this entire administration to address youth violence and to make our streets safe for everyone," Holder said.  "Chicago will not be defined by this incident but rather by our response to it  so we came here today to join with you and with communities all across America  to call for a national conversation on values. Its a conversation that must happen every place in America where violence, intolerance, and discrimination exists," Duncan said.  Todays meeting continues President Obamas and the Administrations strong commitment to combating violence:None  "These numbers are astonishing, and they are unacceptable. We simply cannot stand for an epidemic of violence that robs our youth of their childhood and perpetuates a cycle in which todays victims become tomorrows criminals," Holder said.  Duncan announced that the Department of Education is working with Chicago Public Schools (CPS) to award a $500,000 grant to help Fenger High School and the elementary and middle schools that feed into Fenger HS, restoring learning environments following the death of 16-year-old Derrion Albert. His fatal beating, outside a Roseland community center several blocks from the high school, was captured on a cell phone video. Funds for this grant are coming from a grant program entitled Project SERV  School Emergency Response to Violence. This program is designed to help restore the learning environment in school districts that have been impacted by a significant traumatic event. SERV grants also were provided to school districts in New Jersey, Massachusetts, and New York in 2009.  Duncan emphasized, however, "This is not about the money. Money alone will never solve this problem. Its about our values. Its about who we are as a society. And its about taking responsibility for our young people to teach them what they need to know to live side-by-side and deal with their differences without anger or violence."  The grant from the Department of Education will enable CPS to facilitate safe passage for students to and from school, offer training to enable teachers to better manage their classrooms and engage students in learning, and it can be used to collaborate with community organizations to expand and increase student-centered support programs. The grant also can be used to strengthen the school support network with crisis response training for teachers, and to provide additional, extensive mental health services to students and the school community.