None Acting Assistant Attorney General for National Security Dana J. Boente, Acting U.S. Attorney Soo C. Song for the Western District of Pennsylvania and Special Agent in Charge Robert Johnson of the FBIs Pittsburgh Division announced the charges. The indictment alleges that the defendants conspired to hack into private corporate entities in order to maintain unauthorized access to, and steal sensitive internal documents and communications from, those entities computers. For one victim, information that the defendants targeted and stole between December 2015 and March 2016 contained trade secrets.NoneOnce again, the Justice Department and the FBI have demonstrated that hackers around the world who are seeking to steal our companies most sensitive and valuable information can and will be exposed and held accountable, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Boente. The Justice Department is committed to pursuing the arrest and prosecution of these hackers, no matter how long it takes, and we have a long memory.  Defendants Wu, Dong and Xia launched coordinated and targeted cyber intrusions against businesses operating in the United States, including here in the Western District of Pennsylvania, in order to steal confidential business information, said Acting U.S. Attorney Song. These conspirators masked their criminal conspiracy by exploiting unwitting computers, called hop points, conducting spearphish email campaigns to gain unauthorized access to corporate computers, and deploying malicious code to infiltrate the victim computer networks.NoneIn order to effectively address the cyber threat, a threat that respects no boundaries and continues to grow in both its scope and complexity, law enforcement must come together and transcend borders to target criminal actors no matter where they are in the world, said Special Agent in Charge Johnson. Summary of the Allegations According to the allegations of the Indictment: Defendants Wu, Dong, Xia, and others known and unknown to the grand jury (collectively, the co-conspirators) coordinated computer intrusions against businesses and entities, operating in the United States and elsewhere. To accomplish their intrusions, the co-conspirators would, for example, send spearphishing e-mails to employees of the targeted entities, which included malicious attachments or links to malware. If a recipient opened the attachment or clicked on the link, such action would facilitate unauthorized, persistent access to the recipients computer. With such access, the co-conspirators would typically install other tools on victim computers, including malware the co-conspirators referred to as ups and exeproxy. In many instances, the co-conspirators sought to conceal their activities, location and Boyusec affiliation by using aliases in registering online accounts, intermediary computer servers known as hop points and valid credentials stolen from victim systems.  The primary goal of the co-conspirators unauthorized access to victim computers was to search for, identify, copy, package, and steal data from those computers, including confidential business and commercial information, work product, and sensitive victim employee information, such as usernames and passwords that could be used to extend unauthorized access within the victim systems. For the three victim entities listed in the Indictment, such information included hundreds of gigabytes of data regarding the housing finance, energy, technology, transportation, construction, land survey, and agricultural sectors.  None  None None None Count(s)ChargeStatuteMaximum Penalty1Conspiring to commit computer fraud and abuse18 U.S.C.  1030(b)10 years2Conspiring to commit trade secret theft18 U.S.C.  1832(a)(5)10 years3Wire fraud18 U.S.C. 134320 years4-8Aggravated identity theft18 U.S.C. 1028A(a)(1), (b), (c)(4), and 22 years (mandatory consecutive) Any sentence will be imposed by the court only after consideration of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and the federal statute governing the imposition of a sentence, 18 U.S.C.  3553. Summary of Defendants Conduct Alleged in the Indictment DefendantVictimCriminal ConductWuTrimble In 2015 and 2016, Trimble was developing a Global Navigation Satellite Systems technology designed to improve the accuracy of location data on mobile devices. In January 2016, while this project was in development, Wu accessed Trimbles network and stole files containing commercial business documents and data pertaining to the technology, including Trimble trade secrets. In total, between December 2015 and March 2016, Wu and the other co-conspirators stole at least 275 megabytes of data, including compressed data, which included hundreds of files that would have assisted a Trimble competitor in developing, providing and marketing a similar product without incurring millions of dollars in research and development costs.DongSiemens In 2014, Dong accessed Siemenss computer networks for the purpose of obtaining and using employees usernames and passwords in order to access Siemens network. In 2015, the co-conspirators stole approximately 407 gigabytes of proprietary commercial data pertaining to Siemenss energy, technology and transportation businesses. XiaMoodys Analytics In or around 2011, the co-conspirators accessed the internal email server of Moodys Analytics and placed a forwarding rule in the email account of a prominent employee. The rule directed all emails to and from the employees account to be forwarded to web-based email accounts controlled by the conspirators. In 2013 and 2014, defendant Xia regularly accessed those web-based email accounts to access the employees stolen emails, which contained proprietary and confidential economic analyses, findings and opinions.  An indictment is merely an accusation and a defendant is presumed innocent unless proven guilty in a court of law. The FBI, Naval Criminal Investigative Service and Air Force Office of Special Investigations conducted the investigation that led to the charges in the indictment.  The governments case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney James T. Kitchen of the Western District of Pennsylvania, and Cyber Counsel Jessica Romero and Trial Attorney Jennifer Kennedy Gellie of the National Security Divisions Counterintelligence and Export Control Section.