None    Today, CCI entered guilty pleas to a three-count criminal information before U.S. District Judge James V. Selna in the Central District of California, Santa Ana Division. CCI designs and manufactures service control valves for use in the nuclear, oil and gas, and power generation industries. As part of the plea agreement, CCI agreed to pay a criminal fine of $18.2 million; create, implement and maintain a comprehensive anti-bribery compliance program; retain an independent compliance monitor for a three-year period to review the design and implementation of CCIs anti-bribery compliance program and to make periodic reports to CCI and the Department of Justice; serve a three-year term of organizational probation; and continue to cooperate with the Department of Justice in its ongoing investigation.NoneNoneNone  In related cases, two former executives of CCI previously pleaded guilty to conspiring to bribe officers and employees of foreign state-owned companies on behalf of the valve company. Mario Covino, CCIs former director of worldwide factory sales, pleaded guilty on Jan. 8, 2009, to one count of conspiracy to violate the FCPA and admitted to causing the payment of approximately $1 million in bribes to officers and employees of several foreign state-owned companies. Richard Morlok, CCIs former finance director, pleaded guilty on Feb. 3, 2009, to one count of conspiracy to violate the FCPA and admitted to causing the payment of approximately $628,000 in bribes to officers and employees of several foreign state-owned companies. Covino and Morlok are scheduled to be sentenced on Jan. 25, 2010.  On April 8, 2009, six former CCI executives were charged in a 16-count indictment with violations of the FCPA, the Travel Act and other statutes. The six former CCI executives are Stuart Carson, CCIs former chief executive officer; Hong (Rose) Carson, CCIs former director of sales for China and Taiwan; Paul Cosgrove, CCIs former director of worldwide sales; David Edmonds, CCIs former vice president of worldwide customer service; Flavio Ricotti, CCIs former vice-president and head of sales for Europe, Africa and the Middle East; and Han Yong Kim, the former president of CCIs Korean office. Trial is currently scheduled for Dec. 8, 2009.  In total, CCI admitted that from 2003 through 2007, it made approximately 236 corrupt payments in more than 30 countries, which resulted in net profits to the company of approximately $46.5 million from sales related to those corrupt payments.  The case is being prosecuted by Assistant Chief Hank Bond Walther and Trial Attorney Andrew Gentin of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Douglas McCormick of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Central District of California. The case was investigated by the FBIs Washington Field Office, and its team of special agents dedicated to the investigation of foreign bribery cases.None