  A high-ranking member of the Aryan Brotherhood of Texas (ABT) was sentenced today to serve 360 months in prison for his role in the ABTs criminal enterprise, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney Kenneth Magidson of the Southern District of Texas.  Charles Lee Roberts, aka Jive, 68, of Beaumont, Texas, was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge Sim Lake in the Southern District of Texas. In addition to his prison term, Roberts will serve five years of supervised release.  On May 10, 2013, Roberts pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit racketeering offenses (RICO).  According to court documents, Roberts and other ABT gang members and associates agreed to commit multiple acts of murder, robbery, arson, kidnapping and narcotics trafficking on behalf of the ABT gang. Roberts and numerous ABT gang members met on a regular basis at various locations throughout Texas to report on gang-related business, collect dues, commit disciplinary assaults against fellow gang members and discuss acts of violence against rival gang members, among other things.  Roberts admitted to being a senior leader of the ABT, trafficking in methamphetamine and heroin, and being involved in several homicides on behalf of the ABT.  According to the superseding indictment, the ABT was established in the early 1980s within the Texas prison system. The gang modeled itself after and adopted many of the precepts and writings of the Aryan Brotherhood, a California-based prison gang that was formed in the California prison system during the 1960s. According to the superseding indictment, previously, the ABT was primarily concerned with the protection of white inmates and white supremacy/separatism. Over time, the ABT has expanded its criminal enterprise to include illegal activities for profit.  Court documents allege that the ABT enforced its rules and promoted discipline among its members, prospects and associates through murder, attempted murder, conspiracy to murder, arson, assault, robbery and threats against those who violate the rules or pose a threat to the enterprise. Members, and oftentimes associates, were required to follow the orders of higher-ranking members, often referred to as direct orders.  According to the superseding indictment, in order to be considered for ABT membership, a person must be sponsored by another gang member. Once sponsored, a prospective member must serve an unspecified term, during which he is referred to as a prospect, while his conduct is observed by the members of the ABT.None  The case is being prosecuted by the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section and the U.S. Attorneys Office of the Southern District of Texas.