None      Stevan Nathan Ringo, 26, of Marrero, La., was also ordered by U.S. District Judge T. S. Ellis III to forfeit the proceeds of the scheme, which included $408,495 and other property. In addition, Judge Ellis sentenced Ringo to serve three years of supervised release following his release from prison. Judge Ellis deferred until a later date his decision on the amount of restitution the defendant will be ordered to pay. Ringo pleaded guilty on Sept. 24, 2010, to one count of bribery.       According to court documents, Ringo was stationed at Forward Operating Base (FOB) Shank, a U.S. Army installation in the Logar Province of Eastern Afghanistan. FOB Shank supports U.S. military operations in Afghanistan in various ways, including through fuel receipt and redistribution. More specifically, the Army stores large quantities of fuel at FOB Shank and redistributes that fuel to installations in the surrounding area through government contractors. Ringos responsibilities at FOB Shank included supervision of that fuel redistribution process.      In his guilty plea, Ringo admitted that between December 2009 and February 2010, he accepted more than $400,000 in cash payments from a government contractor in exchange for creating and submitting fraudulent paperwork permitting that contractor to steal fuel from FOB Shank. The total value of the fuel stolen in the course of the scheme was nearly $1.5 million.  None      The NPFTF, created in October 2006 by the Department of Justice, was designed to promote the early detection, identification, prevention and prosecution of procurement fraud. In November 2010, the NPFTF membership became a part of the Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force, an interagency task force established to wage an aggressive, coordinated and proactive effort to investigate and prosecute financial crimes. The ICCTF is a joint law enforcement agency task force that seeks to detect, investigate, and dismantle corruption and contract fraud resulting from U.S. Overseas Contingency Operations worldwide, including in Kuwait, Afghanistan and Iraq. 