Former Company Vice President Pleads Guilty to Participating in Bribery SchemeA Florida defense and government contracting company, IAP Worldwide Services Inc. (IAP), entered into a non-prosecution agreement and agreed to pay a $7.1 million penalty to resolve the governments investigation into whether the company conspired to bribe Kuwaiti officials in order to secure a government contract. A former vice president of IAP also pleaded guilty today to conspiracy to violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) for his involvement in the bribery scheme.Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Dana J. Boente of the Eastern District of Virginia, Assistant Director in Charge Andrew G. McCabe of the FBIs Washington, D.C., Field Office and Special Agent in Charge Robert E. Craig Jr. of the Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS) Mid-Atlantic Field Office made the announcement.James Michael Rama, 69, of Lynchburg, Virginia, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Court Judge James C. Cacheris of the Eastern District of Virginia to one count of conspiracy to violate the anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA. Sentencing is scheduled for Sept. 11, 2015.In 2004, Kuwaits Ministry of the Interior (MOI) initiated the Kuwait Security Program (KSP), a project that was intended to provide nationwide surveillance capabilities for several Kuwaiti government agencies primarily through the use of closed-circuit television. The project was divided into two phases: a planning and feasibility period called Phase I and an installation period called Phase II. The MOI was responsible for overseeing the KSP, including selecting contractors to facilitate its implementation. Revenues from the Phase II contract were expected to be substantially greater than from Phase I.According to admissions made in connection with both the non-prosecution agreement and Ramas plea agreement, IAP and Rama schemed to ensure that IAP worked as the consultant for Phase I so that it could tailor the requirements for the Phase II contracts to IAPs strengths, which would give the company an advantage in the Phase II bidding. To that end, both IAP and Rama admitted that in February 2006, executives and senior employees of IAP, including Rama, set up a shell company called Ramaco to bid on Phase I, in part to conceal IAPs role in crafting the Phase II requirements and its conflict of interest in connection with securing the Phase II contract.Ultimately, Ramaco secured the Phase I contract for approximately $4 million. According to admissions made in connection with both agreements, the Rama and IAP agreed that half of that amount would be diverted to a consultant who would pay bribes to Kuwaiti government officials to assist IAP in obtaining and retaining the Phase I contract and to obtain the Phase II contract. IAP and Rama admitted that they disguised the payments by transferring funds Ramaco received to an IAP bank account and then to the consultant through a series of accounts and intermediaries. According to the factual statements incorporated into both the non-prosecution agreement and Ramas plea agreement, between September 2006 and March 2008, IAP and its co-conspirators paid the consultant approximately $1,783,688 understanding that some or all of the funds would be used to bribe Kuwaiti government officials.Based on a variety of factors, including but not limited to IAPs cooperation, the Criminal Division entered into a non-prosecution agreement with the company. The non-prosecution agreement requires IAPs continued cooperation. In addition, the non-prosecution agreement requires IAP to conduct a review of its existing internal controls, policies and procedures, and make any necessary modifications to ensure that the company maintains accurate record keeping and a rigorous anti-corruption compliance program. The non-prosecution agreement further requires IAP to report periodically to the Criminal Division and to the U.S. Attorneys Office of the Eastern District of Virginia regarding remediation and implementation of the aforementioned compliance program and internal controls, policies and procedures.The investigation is being conducted by the FBIs Washington, D.C., Field Office and the DCIS Mid-Atlantic Field Office. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant Chief Tarek Helou and Trial Attorney James P. McDonald of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Paul J. Nathanson of the Eastern District of Virginia. The United Kingdoms Serious Fraud Office and the Criminal Divisions Office of International Affairs also provided assistance during the investigation.NoneNoneNone