  WASHINGTON  The Department of Justices Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA) today announced the Building Neighborhood Capacity Program (BNCP) Training and Technical Assistance (TTA) Coordinator Solicitation, part of an innovative approach to build capacity in distressed neighborhoods. The BNCP, a core component of the Administrations Neighborhood Revitalization Initiative (NRI), seeks an experienced TTA coordinator to help an initial group of five neighborhoods build capacity for revitalization and resiliency to prevent and fight crime.      Led by the White House Domestic Policy Council, the NRI brings together the Departments of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), Education, Justice, Health and Human Services and Treasury to align federal programs supporting neighborhood revitalization and to implement interagency pilot programs, such as BNCP.   This solicitation is announced on behalf of the NRI and funded through the Departments of Justice, HUD and Education.   While there are different streams of federal aid available to neighborhoods in need, some communities lack the capacity to qualify for and use this assistance, said U.S. Attorney General Eric H. Holder, Jr.   This program will build capacity in those neighborhoods, so residents, businesses and leaders are better able to collectively solve problems, identify, access and leverage existing resources, and put improvements in place. Given fiscal realities, this is a significant step towards ensuring that all Americans have access to safe, healthy neighborhoods with affordable housing, good jobs, quality schools and essential services.   BNCP complements traditional, program-based public and private investment, especially federally-funded programs.   An interagency federal team led by the NRI will provide guidance and manage BNCP activities.   BJA will oversee the coordinator in consultation with the NRI team.   This partnership will help build the capacity of community-based organizations to ensure that there is a great school at the center of every neighborhood, said U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan. Education is everyone's responsibility, and all of us in the federal government and the local level have to work together to build strong schools and communities.   Through the work of this federal partnership, local communities will be better equipped to bring affordable housing, jobs and education to neighborhoods that were once plagued with high poverty, blight and distress, said Shaun Donovan, U.S. Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.   Problems in housing, school quality and public safety are inextricably connected in neighborhoods -- and working across silos at the federal level is crucial to achieving any success.   The NRI recognizes that interconnected problems require interconnected solutions, said Laurie O. Robinson, Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Justice Programs. By breaking down the silos that often exist in federal assistance, this initiative empowers communities to more easily and fully leverage available, existing resources and effect lasting, meaningful change in distressed neighborhoods.None None