A Detroit-area podiatrist pleaded guilty today to health care fraud for his participation in a $1 million scheme involving podiatry services that were never rendered.  Acting Assistant Attorney General John P. Cronan of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Matthew Schneider of the Eastern District of Michigan, Special Agent in Charge David P. Gelios of the FBIs Detroit Division and Special Agent in Charge Lamont Pugh III of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector Generals (HHS-OIG) Chicago Regional Office made the announcement.NoneLawrence Young, D.P.M., 70, of Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, pleaded guilty to one count of health care fraud before U.S. District Judge Judith E. Levy of the Eastern District of Michigan. Sentencing has been scheduled for May 22 before Judge Levy.  As part of his guilty plea, Young admitted that from approximately January 2010 through April 2017, he engaged in a scheme to defraud the Medicare program by causing the submission of false and fraudulent claims to Medicare for the application of an Unna Boot, which is a type of medicated dressing typically applied after surgery to control swelling of the leg or foot. Young admitted regularly submitting these claims for reimbursement even though he knew that his patients routinely received nothing more than a non-medicated dressing. The scheme involved the submission of more $1 million in fraudulent claims to Medicare, he admitted.  This case was investigated by the FBI and HHS-OIG. Trial Attorneys Tom Tynan and Steve Scott of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section are prosecuting the case.  The Fraud Section leads the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, which is part of a joint initiative between the Department of Justice and HHS to focus their efforts to prevent and deter fraud and enforce current anti-fraud laws around the country. The Medicare Fraud Strike Force operates in nine locations nationwide. Since its inception in March 2007, the Medicare Fraud Strike Force has charged over 3,500 defendants who collectively have falsely billed the Medicare program for over $12.5 billion. 