  St. Josephs Medical Center, a hospital located in Towson, Md., has reached a settlement with the United States to pay $4.9 million in connection with its submission of false claims to Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs, the Justice Department announced today.      This settlement resolves the hospitals civil liability to the United States under the False Claims Act for the hospitals disclosure that from 2007-2009 it engaged in a practice of admitting patients to the hospital unnecessarily.   In particular, the hospital disclosed that it admitted patients for short stays  typically one or two days  that were not warranted by the patients medical condition, and thereby generated a larger reimbursement than was proper for each patient.   Of the $4.9 million to be paid by St. Josephs, $4.6 million will go the United States, and $152,406 will go to the state of Maryland, which is also a party to the agreement.   The improper admission of patients for the purpose of obtaining increased reimbursement is a significant drain on the resources of federal and state healthcare programs, said Stuart F. Delery, Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General of the Justice Departments Civil Division.   This recovery reflects the Departments continuing efforts to safeguard federal funds.  This resolution is part of the government's emphasis on combating health care fraud and another step for the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT) initiative, which was announced by Attorney General Eric Holder and Kathleen Sebelius, Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services in May 2009. The partnership between the two departments has focused efforts to reduce and prevent Medicare and Medicaid financial fraud through enhanced cooperation. One of the most powerful tools in that effort is the False Claims Act, which the Justice Department has used to recover more than $10.2 billion since January 2009 in cases involving fraud against federal health care programs. The Justice Departments total recoveries in False Claims Act cases since January 2009 are over $14 billion.   Mr. Delery thanked the Department of Health and Human Services, Office of the Inspector General; the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Maryland; and the Justice Departments Commercial Litigation Branch, for their resolution of this matter.