  WASHINGTON  The Department of Justices Antitrust Division issued the following statement today after announcing the closing of its investigation into the proposed acquisition of Admeld Inc., an online display advertising service provider, by Google Inc.:   The Antitrust Division obtained extensive information from Google, Admeld and a wide range of market participants in connection with its merger investigation of the proposed transaction. After a thorough review of the evidence, the division concluded that the transaction is not likely to substantially lessen competition in the sale of display advertising.   Although the Antitrust Division concluded that this particular transaction was unlikely to cause consumer harm, the division will continue to be vigilant in the enforcement of the antitrust laws to protect competition in display and other forms of online advertising.   The divisions investigation focused on the potential effect of the proposed transaction on competition in the display advertising industry. Both Google and Admeld provide services and technology to web publishers that facilitate the sale of those publishers display advertising space. Google is a diversified software company whose offerings for publishers include an advertising exchange, an advertising network and an ad server. Admeld operates a supply-side platform (SSP) that helps publishers optimize the yield from their display advertising inventory.   The investigation determined that web publishers often rely on multiple display advertising platforms and can move business among them in response to changes in price or the quality of ad placements. This use of multiple display advertising platforms, commonly called multi-homing, lessens the risk that the market will tip to a single dominant platform. In addition, there have been recent SSP and advertising exchange entrants in the display advertising industry. These were significant considerations in the divisions decision to close the investigation. None   Google Inc., based in Mountain View, Calif., operates the largest Internet search engine in the world and one of the largest display advertising platforms. Google derives revenue primarily from advertising, both as a publisher itself and as an intermediary between advertisers and other publishers. Aside from advertising-related products, Googles software offerings include a smartphone operating system, web-based email and mapping programs. In 2010, Google had revenues of approximately $29 billion.   Admeld Inc., established in 2007 and based in New York City, operates one of the largest SSPs in the display advertising industry. Admeld offers a combination of services that include usage of its own advertising exchange, facilitating interaction with advertising networks and general advisory services.   In 2010, Admeld raised approximately $30 million. None