The Department of Justice today announced that both Acting Director David Harlow of the U.S. Marshals Service (USMS) and Deputy Director Thomas E. Brandon of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) will continue to serve as the heads of their respective agencies for the duration of this administration.Over the course of their decades in law enforcement, David Harlow and Thomas Brandon have demonstrated themselves to be outstanding public servants and extraordinary partners in the work of building a stronger, safer nation, said Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch. As head of the U.S. Marshals Service, David Harlow has led on a range of important issues, from helping to expand the ability of USMS to assist in cases involving missing children, to promoting an understanding of implicit bias, to apprehending violent fugitives. As the leader of ATF, Thomas Brandon has forged broad-based partnerships, advanced intelligence-driven policing and helped shape ATFs impact as a guardian of public safety. In all of their efforts, they have worked to fulfill Americas highest priorities and most deeply-held values. I am pleased that the American people will continue to receive the benefit of their professionalism, integrity and devotion to duty.Harlow became Acting Director of the U.S. Marshals on July 26, 2015. Pursuant to the Vacancies Reform Act, the title of acting director will expire on Feb. 20, 2016, at which time Harlow will continue leading the Marshals as Deputy Director for the duration of this administration.Brandon became Acting Director of ATF on April 1, 2015. Pursuant to the Vacancies Reform Act, his title of acting director expired on Oct. 27, 2015, and he will continue leading ATF in his role as Deputy Director for the duration of this administration.Biography of Acting Director David HarlowDavid Harlow became the Acting Director of the U.S. Marshals on July 26, 2015, following more than 30 years of dedicated service in the agency. He leads the nations oldest and most versatile federal law enforcement agency, responsible for federal judicial security, fugitive apprehension, witness security, asset forfeiture and prisoner operations.Acting Director Harlow was named the agencys Deputy Director in February 2014. Since that time, he has focused on ensuring accountability and excellence, and bringing about successful organizational change.From 2012 to 2014, Acting Director Harlow was the Associate Director for Operations, managing the USMS Operational Directorate, which includes Investigative Operations, Judicial Security, Witness Security, Tactical Operations, Prisoner Operations and the Justice Prisoner and Alien Transportation System.In May 2012, Acting Director Harlow was promoted to the Senior Executive Service when he was selected as the Assistant Director of the Investigative Operations Division (IOD), overseeing the agencys extensive fugitive investigations mission. Prior to assuming the position, he was the Acting Deputy Assistant Director of IOD for approximately one year.Acting Director Harlow served as Chief of the Sex Offender Investigations Branch from 2008 to 2011, overseeing the development and deployment of the agencys newest investigative program, the Sex Offender Apprehension Program. He also oversaw the interagency National Sex Offender Targeting Center and developed the USMS Behavioral Analysis Unit to assist with prioritizing and targeting non-compliant and fugitive sex offenders.Before arriving at USMS Headquarters, Acting Director Harlow was the Chief Deputy U.S. Marshal (CDUSM) for the Eastern District of Virginia from 2007 to 2008. Prior to that, he was CDUSM for the Northern District of Ohio, where he served from the time he joined the USMS as a Deputy U.S. Marshal in 1983 until 2007. He made numerous contributions to Northern Ohio over the years, including serving as Commander of Operation FALCON 2007, serving as Deputy Commander of Operation FALCON III, developing the first cooperative fugitive apprehension team consisting of multiple law enforcement agencies in the Toledo area and overseeing the development of the Northern Ohio Violent Fugitive Task Force.Throughout his career, Acting Director Harlow has received numerous awards, including Attorney Generals Awards, Directors Awards and several other special act and performance awards. He is also an active member of the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association.Acting Director Harlow holds a bachelors degree in Law Enforcement Administration from Western Illinois University. He and his wife, Lisa, have two sons, Sean and Brian.Biography of Deputy Director Thomas E. BrandonThomas E. Brandon serves as the Deputy Director and head of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF). He was appointed ATF's Deputy Director in October 2011. On April 1, 2015, he was named Acting Director of the agency, and served in that position until October 27th, 2015, when pursuant to the Vacancies Act the title expired. As Deputy Director and head of ATF, Mr. Brandon is responsible for the unique law enforcement agency within the U.S. Department of Justice charged with enforcing firearms and explosives laws and regulations that protect communities from violent criminals and criminal organizations.At the time of his appointment as Deputy Director in 2011, Mr. Brandon was serving as the Special Agent in Charge of the Phoenix Field Division, directing field operations for ATF in Arizona and New Mexico.A member of the Senior Executive Service and a seasoned law enforcement professional, Mr. Brandon began his ATF career as a Special Agent in 1989, with Detroit as his first office assignment. Rising through the ranks at ATF, he has served in many management positions including Special Agent in Charge of the Phoenix Field Division and Special Agent in Charge of the Detroit Field Division; Supervisory Special Agent of the Detroit Arson and Explosives Enforcement Group; Special Agent with the Office of Inspection in Washington, D.C.; Supervisory Special Agent of the Achilles Enforcement Group in Los Angeles, California; and as the Division Intelligence Officer with the Phoenix, Arizona, Field Division. Mr. Brandon also held the position of Chief, ATF National Academy, in Glynco, Georgia.Mr. Brandon is a member of several professional organizations including the International Association of Chiefs of Police (IACP). He earned his Bachelor of Science degree in Business Administration from Oakland University in Rochester, Michigan, in 1987.Mr. Brandon proudly served in the United States Marine Corps from 1978 to 1982, where his assignments included Embassy duty in Rome, Italy, and Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. Mr. Brandon is a native of New Jersey.