The worlds largest dietary supplement retailer, GNC Holdings Inc. (GNC), has entered into a wide-ranging agreement with the Department of Justice to reform its practices related to potentially unlawful dietary ingredients and dietary supplements, and has further promised to embark on a series of voluntary initiatives designed to improve the quality and purity of dietary supplements, the Department of Justice announced today. The non-prosecution agreement resolves GNCs liability for selling certain dietary supplements produced by a firm currently under indictment. As part of the agreement, GNC has agreed to pay $2.25 million to the U.S. government and cooperate in dietary supplement investigations conducted by the government.A lengthy investigation conducted by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Northern District of Texas, and the Consumer Protection Branch of the Department of Justices Civil Division revealed that GNCs practices related to ensuring the legality of products on its shelves were lacking.According to an agreed-upon statement of facts that accompanies the non-prosecution agreement, GNC engaged in acts and omissions that allowed a misbranded supplement OxyElite Pro Advanced Formula, a product of Dallas-based USPlabs LLC (USP Labs)to be sold at GNC locations nationwide in 2013. The statement of facts notes that GNC sold the product based on representations from USP Labs that ingredients contained in the product complied with the law. It further notes that GNC did not undertake additional testing or require additional certifications to confirm such representations or to verify that the ingredients in the product were as represented.NoneTodays resolution requires GNC to commit to certain changes designed to prevent unlawful dietary supplements from reaching its shelves: Unlawful dietary supplements are an important enforcement priority for the department, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer, head of the Justice Departments Civil Division. Todays resolution is a significant step forward in reforming an industry rife with alarming practices. Companies like GNC need to do more to ensure that they are not selling products containing questionable and untested ingredients. The American public deserves better, and the Department of Justice appreciates GNCs efforts in resolving its issues and moving forward in the best interests of American consumers.I am pleased with this agreement and hold steadfast that those engaged in the sale of dietary supplements to the public must adhere to higher standards to ensure consumers are protected from lax business practices that could endanger them, said U.S. Attorney John R. Parker of the Northern District of Texas.Protecting the public from unsafe ingredients in dietary supplements is one of FDAs most important responsibilities, said Director George M. Karavetsos of FDA Office of Criminal Investigations. We will continue to work with industry to ensure that supplements distributed in the U.S. marketplace do not contain harmful ingredients.The matter was handled by Consumer Protection Branch Trial Attorneys David Sullivan and Patrick Runkle, and Northern District of Texas Assistant U.S. Attorney Errin Martin. FDA Office of Chief Counsel Attorneys Nathan Sabel and Michael Shane supported the matter, which was investigated by the FDA Office of Criminal Investigations, Dallas Domicile.NoneNone   