None  Fessahazion, aka Sami, aka Sammy, aka Alex and aka Alex Williams pleaded guilty yesterday in Houston before U.S. District Court Judge Nancy A. Atlas to one count of conspiracy, and two counts of encouraging and inducing aliens to come to, enter or reside in the United States in violation of law for the purpose of private financial gain.   By bringing this smuggler to justice, we have broken a chain that runs from Africa to South and Central America, directly into the United States, said Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer.   We will not allow these dangerous smuggling organizations to profit from bringing people illegally into the United States.   This prosecution strikes a significant blow to a criminal organization engaged in a sophisticated international alien smuggling operation, said U.S. Attorney Jos Angel Moreno of the Southern District of Texas, and highlights the continuing cooperation and success of multiple law enforcement agencies in interdicting such activities.   Breaking this global alien smuggling network puts smugglers on notice that we are coming after them and we will shut them down, said ICE Assistant Secretary John Morton.   ICE will continue to identify the most dangerous international human smuggling organizations for investigation and prosecution. None   Fessahazion admitted that for profit, he encouraged or induced at least six and up to 24 illegal aliens, primarily East Africans, to come to, enter, or reside in the United States knowing that they were not authorized to do so.   Fessahazion admitted he moved aliens from Honduras through Guatemala and into Mexico illegally, at which point he referred aliens to a smuggler who brought the aliens into the United States. None None None   At sentencing, scheduled for June 14, 2010, Fessahazion faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine.  The case was prosecuted by Trial Attorney Pragna Soni of the Criminal Divisions Domestic Security Section, with the assistance of Assistant U.S. Attorneys Edward Gallagher and Douglas Davis of the Southern District of Texas.  The investigation was conducted by the ICE Special Agent in Charge (SAC) Washington,   with the assistance of SAC San Francisco, the ICE Human Smuggling and Trafficking Unit, ICE Office of Intelligence, ICE Office of International Affairs and U.S. Custom and Border Protections Office of Alien Smuggling Interdiction.