Four Nursing Homes Using Kindred/RehabCare to Pay an Additional $8.225 MillionContract therapy providers RehabCare Group Inc., RehabCare Group East Inc. and their parent, Kindred Healthcare Inc., have agreed to pay $125 million to resolve a government lawsuit alleging that they violated the False Claims Act by knowingly causing skilled nursing facilities (SNFs) to submit false claims to Medicare for rehabilitation therapy services that were not reasonable, necessary and skilled, or that never occurred, the Department of Justice announced today.RehabCare Group Inc. and RehabCare Group East Inc. were purchased by the Louisville, Kentucky-based Kindred Healthcare Inc. in 2011 and they now operate under the name RehabCare as a division of Kindred. RehabCare is the largest provider of therapy in the nation, contracting with more than 1,000 SNFs in 44 states to provide rehabilitation therapy to their patients.Medicare beneficiaries are entitled to receive care that is dictated by their clinical needs rather than the fiscal interests of healthcare providers, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer, head of the Justice Departments Civil Division. All providers, whether contractors or direct billers of taxpayer-funded federal healthcare programs, will be held accountable when their actions cause false claims for unnecessary services.The governments complaint alleged that RehabCares policies and practices, including setting unrealistic financial goals and scheduling therapy to achieve the highest reimbursement level regardless of the clinical needs of its patients, resulted in Rehabcare providing unreasonable and unnecessary services to Medicare patients and led its SNF customers to submit artificially and improperly inflated bills to Medicare that included those services. Specifically, the governments complaint alleged that RehabCares schemes included the following:This False Claim Act settlement addresses allegations that RehabCare and its nursing facility customers engaged in a systematic and broad-ranging scheme to increase profits by delivering, or purporting to deliver, therapy in a manner that was focused on increasing Medicare reimbursement rather than on the clinical needs of patients, said U.S. Attorney Carmen M. Ortiz for the District of Massachusetts. The complaint outlines the extent and sophistication of this fraud, and the governments continuing work to ensure that the provision of care in skilled nursing facilities is based on patients clinical needs.Health providers seeking to increase Medicare profits, rather than providing suitable, high-quality care, will be investigated and prosecuted, said Inspector General Daniel R. Levinson for the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Under our robust compliance agreement, an outside review organization will scrutinize a random sample of medical records annually to assess the medical necessity and reasonableness of therapy services provided by RehabCare.NoneNoneThe settlements announced today illustrate the governments emphasis on combating health care fraud and marks another achievement for the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT) initiative, which was announced in May 2009 by the Attorney General and the Secretary of Health and Human Services. The partnership between the two departments has focused efforts to reduce and prevent Medicare and Medicaid financial fraud through enhanced cooperation. One of the most powerful tools in this effort is the False Claims Act. Since January 2009, the Justice Department has recovered a total of more than $27.1 billion through False Claims Act cases, with more than $17.1 billion of that amount recovered in cases involving fraud against federal health care programs. Tips and complaints from all sources about potential fraud, waste, abuse, and mismanagement, including the conduct described in the United States complaint, can be reported to the Department of Health and Human Services, at 800-HHS-TIPS (800-447-8477).This matter was handled by the Civil Divisions Commercial Litigation Branch; the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Massachusetts; HHS Office of Inspector General and the FBI.NoneThe claims settled are allegations only, and there has been no determination of liability.