A federal grand jury in San Francisco returned an eight-count indictment against five real estate investors for their role in bid rigging and fraud schemes at foreclosure auctions in Northern California, the Department of Justice announced.The indictment, filed today in U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California in San Francisco, California, charges Northern California real estate investors Joseph Giraudo, Raymond Grinsell, Kevin Cullinane, James Appenrodt and Abraham Farag with participating in conspiracies to rig bids and schemes to defraud mortgage holders and others. The indictment alleges that the defendants agreed to stop bidding or to refrain from bidding for properties at public foreclosure auctions in San Mateo County, California, in return for payoffs and concealing the fact that monies were diverted from mortgage holders, homeowners and others to co-schemers. Additionally, Giraudo, Grinsell and Appenrodt were charged with bid rigging and fraud in San Francisco County, California. To date, 47 individuals have agreed to plead or have pleaded guilty, as a result of the departments ongoing antitrust investigations into bid rigging and fraud at public real estate foreclosure auctions in Northern California. These defendants corrupted the public foreclosure auctions in San Mateo and San Francisco counties, and they did so to line their pockets with money that rightfully belonged to mortgage holders and others, said Brent Snyder, Deputy Assistant Attorney for the Antitrust Divisions criminal enforcement program. As these charges demonstrate, the Antitrust Division will continue to pursue bidders at foreclosure auctions who violated the Sherman Act and defrauded mortgage holders and others.The indictment alleges, among other things, that beginning no later than August 2008 and continuing until January 2011, the defendants conspired to rig bids to obtain numerous properties sold at foreclosure auctions in San Mateo and San Francisco counties, paid others not to bid, accepted payoffs not to bid and, in the process, defrauded mortgage holders, other holders of debt secured by the auctioned properties and, in some cases, the defaulting homeowners.These charges demonstrate our continued commitment to investigate and prosecute individuals and organizations responsible for the corruption of the public foreclosure auction process, said David J. Johnson, FBI Special Agent in Charge of the San Francisco Field Office. The FBI is committed to work these important cases and remains unwavering in our dedication to bring the members of these illegal conspiracies to justice. Each violation of the Sherman Act carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $1 million fine for individuals. Each count of mail fraud carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison and a $1 million fine. The government can also seek to forfeit the proceeds earned from participating in the mail fraud schemes. The maximum fine for the Sherman Act charges may be increased to twice the gain derived from the crime or twice the loss suffered by the victim if either amount is greater than $1 million. NoneNone