  A federal judge in Tampa, Fla., has permanently barred eight men  including five tax preparers and two Certified Public Accountants (CPA)  from promoting an alleged tax fraud scheme involving bogus income tax credits. The eight men are among 32 defendants named in a civil injunction lawsuit who allegedly helped customers claim more than $30 million in bogus federal income tax credits designed for producers of fuel from non-conventional sources. The court orders were signed by Judge Susan C. Bucklew of the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida.None  The eight men enjoined are George Calvert of Hernando Beach, Fla.; Gregory Guido of Lithia, Fla.; Robert Anderson of Bloomington, Ill.; Ralph Johnson of Alton, Ill.; David Geiger of St. Charles, Mo.; William Neel of Clayton Mo.; Mark Johnson of Mansfield Texas; and Carl Martin-Stewart of Carthage, Texas. All eight consented to be enjoined without admitting wrongdoing. The lawsuit remains pending against the other 24 individual defendants, although the case against some defendants has been transferred to a federal court in Texas.  The government suit alleges that Calvert and Guido, who is a CPA, concocted the scheme and promoted it through tax preparers who acted as subpromoters  including Ralph Johnson, Mark Johnson, Geiger and Neel, who is also a CPA. The tax preparers allegedly sold interests in the fictitious methane-production facilities to thousands of customers in at least 14 states across the country and prepared income tax returns for customers claiming tax credits based on the fictitious methane sales.None  The injunction orders also bar the eight men from interfering with or obstructing Internal Revenue Service (IRS) audits of scheme participants. In addition, Calvert is permanently barred from preparing federal tax returns for others or representing anyone in a matter before the IRS.  John DiCicco, Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Tax Division, thanked Shana Starnes, the Justice Department trial attorney who handled the case, and Jean Lane, a revenue agent with the IRSs Small Business/Self-Employed Division, who conducted the investigation.None