  WASHINGTON - The United States is seeking an order from a federal court in San Francisco authorizing the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to request information from HSBC Bank USA, N.A. about U.S. residents who may be using accounts at The Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation in India (HSBC India) to evade federal income taxes, the Justice Department announced today.   The government filed a petition with the court to allow the IRS to serve what is known as a John Doe summons on the bank.   The IRS uses a John Doe summons to obtain information about possible tax fraud by people whose identities are unknown.   If approved, the John Doe summons would direct HSBC USA to produce records identifying U.S. taxpayers with accounts at HSBC India, many of whom are believed by the government to have hidden their accounts from the IRS.   According to documents filed with the governments petition, on Jan. 26, 2011, a grand jury in Newark, N.J., indicted Vaibhav Dahake of Somerset, N.J., charging him with conspiracy to defraud the United States by using undeclared accounts in the British Virgin Islands and at HSBC India to evade his income taxes.   According to those documents, employees of HSBC Holdings plc and its affiliates operating in the United States assured Dahake that accounts maintained in India would not be reported to the IRS.   The government alleges that, according to HSBCs website, in 2002 HSBC India opened a representative office at an HSBC USA office in New York City to enable Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) living in the United States to open accounts in India.   In 2007, HSBC India allegedly opened a second representative office at an HSBC USA office in Fremont, Calif., purportedly to make banking transactions more convenient for the NRI community based in California.   Although HSBC India closed those offices in June 2010, the government alleges that NRI clients may still access their accounts at HSBC India from the United States.   According to the petition documents, NRI clients have told IRS investigators that NRI representatives in the United States assured the clients that they could invest in accounts at HSBC India without paying U.S. income tax on interest earned on the accounts and that HSBC would not report the income earned on the HSBC India accounts to the IRS.   The Department of Justice is committed to ensuring that all U.S. taxpayers meet their obligations to declare and pay taxes on foreign bank accounts, said John A. DiCicco, Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Departments Tax Division. The ability to hide accounts in foreign countries is rapidly dwindling.   We will continue working hand-in-hand with the IRS to enforce the tax laws against those who are using offshore accounts  wherever they are located  to evade taxes.   The IRS continues to focus its attention on international tax evasion, said IRS Commissioner Douglas Shulman. This summons request is focused on obtaining more information to help us determine if additional actions are needed.   As Ive said all along, our international efforts are not about just one country or one bank  its about our wider effort to ensure compliance with the nations tax laws.   Federal law requires U.S. taxpayers to pay federal income taxes on all income earned worldwide. U.S. taxpayers must also report foreign financial accounts if the total value of the accounts exceeds $10,000 at any time during the calendar year.   A willful failure to report a foreign account can result in a penalty of up to 50 percent of the amount in the account at the time of the violation. None 